Article Number: 231
China: Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn of Thailand Meets with Wang Yi
Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn of Thailand met with Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Bangkok.
Wang Yi first conveyed President Xi Jinping's cordial greetings to King Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajiraklaochaoyuhua.
Wang Yi said that this year marks the 75th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China, which is a year of celebration for the Chinese people.
This year also sees the 60th birthday of the King of Thailand, which is a happy year for the Thai people.
Wang Yi said, it is a delight to visit Thailand at the beginning of the New Year upon invitation.
He held an annual consultation with Thai Minister of Foreign Affairs Parnpree Bahiddha-Nukara today, during which both sides reached important consensus on deepening the building of the China-Thailand community with a shared future.
The two sides also signed an agreement on mutual visa exemption, which will facilitate closer people-to-people exchanges.
China and Thailand are as close as one family, and more exchanges will bring the two countries even closer.
Wang Yi said that the Thai royal family has always attached great importance to the China-Thailand friendship, and he hopes the Thai royal family will continue to make new contributions to the development of the China-Thailand friendship under the new circumstances.
Princess Sirindhorn is the Chinese people's good and old friend, who has been awarded the Friendship Medal and visited China more than 50 times, facilitating deeper mutual understanding between the two peoples.
Princess Sirindhorn can be regarded as a symbol of China-Thailand friendship.
As next year will mark the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Thailand, China stands ready to maintain high-level exchanges with the Thai side, carry out closer people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and take the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries to a new level.
Sirindhorn said that she cherishes the friendship with China, and often shows her students the Friendship Medal awarded by President Xi.
She hopes to enhance communication and exchanges with China in various fields and strengthen cooperation in education, traditional medicine, science and technology, aerospace, and other fields.
China is a vast country with abundant resources.
Although she has visited China many times, there are still many places she wants to see.
She looks forward to visiting China again.