Article Number: 43
Approaching Covid Wave Tests China's Embrace of Herbal Remedies; Loosening of zero-tolerance pandemic controls revives debate over government's promotion of traditional Chinese medicine
Lin, Liza.
SINGAPORE—Sales of popular traditional Chinese medicine are surging as Chinese buyers rush to stock up on Covid-19 treatments after China announced it would ease its strict pandemic restrictions .
The scramble to secure supplies has reignited a debate among public-health experts about an aggressive push by China's government to promote traditional remedies in the fight against Covid-19, even as it declines to approve wide use of foreign-made mRNA vaccines .
Prices of Lianhua Qingwen, an herbal preparation endorsed by senior health officials as a prophylactic for Covid, have spiked in recent days, prompting the drug's manufacturer to issue a statement committing to price and supply stability.
Shares of its parent company, Shijiazhuang Yiling Pharmaceutical Co., also hit a record high this week, with investors speculating demand for its products would surge.
On popular e-commerce platforms such as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s Taobao, some online merchants have limited the sale of Lianhua Qingwen to two boxes per buyer.
As stocks online and in stores ran low Friday, China's market regulator issued a statement warning retailers against hoarding and driving up the cost of the remedy and other Covid-relief drugs.
Two pharmacies in Beijing visited by The Wall Street Journal on Friday were sold out of Lianhua Qingwen, and a third was limiting purchases.
The emptying shelves are a testament to how heavily China's government has promoted traditional remedies as a defense against Covid-19—a campaign that has delighted promoters of traditional Chinese medicine, worried skeptics and drawn warnings from health regulators elsewhere in the world.
"There is some evidence that traditional Chinese medicine does add some benefit to existing Western medicine, but the evidence is not strong and maybe prone to bias," said Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia.
"So Western medicine has to be the mainstay."
In July 2020, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a warning letter to a website selling Lianhua Qingwen as a Covid-19 remedy, pointing to rules outlawing the promotion of products that claim to cure, treat or prevent disease without clinical trials as evidence.
Chinese officials have nevertheless continued to say traditional remedies are vital to the fight against the coronavirus.
"Combining Chinese and Western medicine is very important in order to cure the disease, and both medicines should be given equal emphasis," Guo Yanhong, a director at China's National Health Commission, said in a news briefing Wednesday where the relaxation of zero-tolerance Covid measures was announced.
The government's adherence to that message is set to take on added significance in the coming months with China likely to be swamped by a Covid wave that public-health experts say the country is poorly prepared for.
Traditional Chinese medicine has been the subject of debate for decades.
Practitioners of the medicine believe that disease arises from imbalances in the body due to unhealthy factors in one's environment or lifestyle and seek to strengthen the body rather than treat the disease itself, as in Western medicine.
Underlying such treatments is the idea that people have "hot" or "cold" constitutions that make them prone to ailments in parts of the body.
Western science, however, has little data to support claims of the effectiveness of traditional Chinese medicine.
Critics also say advocates overlook the toxicity of such cures.
Since coming to power in 2012, Chinese leader Xi Jinping has thrown his personal support behind efforts to promote traditional Chinese medicine globally.
Under his watch, the government designated development of the industry a national strategic priority and passed a new rule regulating growth of the sector.
The pandemic has accelerated and expanded that promotional effort.
Since the early days of the Covid outbreak, teams of Chinese health experts have traveled to Zimbabwe, Italy, Cambodia and other countries offering treatment plans that mix Chinese vaccines and traditional remedies.
China has held more than 110 videoconferences to share the country's experience treating Covid with traditional Chinese medicine with more than 150 countries and regions, according to China's National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, a government body that oversees the promotion and development of the products.
This past January, advocates of traditional Chinese medicine, including an official with China's State Council, met World Health Organization chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus to pass him a report about China's use of the treatments to fight the Covid-19 pandemic.
A month later, the WHO convened a panel of experts to evaluate the use of Chinese medicine in combating the virus.
The effort is an important part of Mr. Xi's longer-term political effort to increase China's influence in global health governance, according to Yanzhong Huang, senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations.
"This is tied to China's effort to promote patriotism and soft power," Mr. Huang said.
"Even if a lot of the work is wasted, they will spare no effort to promote it."
Political analysts say the same nationalist impulse also appears to be at least partly driving China's rejection of foreign-developed mRNA vaccines , which are generally viewed by health experts as more efficient, for broad use.
This year, as Covid outbreaks roiled Hong Kong and Shanghai, authorities in both cities sent packages to households that included rapid tests, masks and traditional Chinese medicines.
China also dispatched traditional Chinese medicine specialists to Hong Kong early in the year to advise the local government on pandemic control.
The list of those promoting traditional treatments extends beyond government officials to medical experts like Zhong Nanshan, a respiratory specialist who has taken on a prominent government advisory role akin to Dr. Anthony Fauci in Washington.
Dr. Zhong has said Chinese medicine can repair damaged cells and alleviate symptoms such as coughing and fever.
The drive has propelled the buying of Chinese herbs and medicinal products overseas.
Customs data show such exports rising to more than $710 million in the first half of 2022, an increase of more than 20% from the same period a year earlier, according to financial data provider Wind.
Lianhua Qingwen's popularity has also boosted the share price of its parent Yiling Pharmaceutical almost fivefold since the start of 2020.
Drug regulators in Australia, Sweden and Singapore have joined the FDA in warning companies selling Lianhua Qingwen to stop promoting the products as a Covid treatment.
In a "What You Need to Know" page on its website, the U.S. National Institutes of Health says no firm conclusions can be made about the effectiveness of Chinese herbal remedies because of poor-quality studies.
In 2021, academic journal Phytomedicine issued a correction to a peer-reviewed study the year before that concluded Lianhua Qingwen helped reduce fever, fatigue and coughing in light to moderate cases of Covid-19.
The correction disclosed that one of the people involved in the report's publication was the son-in-law of the founder of the Yiling Pharmaceutical.
After the correction was published, the son-in-law, Dr. Jia Zhenhua, said he had no role in the data acquisition, statistical analysis or writing of the study.
Neither Dr. Jia nor Yiling Pharmaceutical responded to requests for comment.
The doubts haven't deterred Dr. Jeda Boughton, a Toronto-based traditional Chinese medicine practitioner of more than 20 years, who said she has treated Covid patients since the beginning of the outbreak using modifications of several herbal formulas.
"When you are using Chinese medicine, you are treating a group of symptoms, such as coughing, runny nose, fatigue, etc.," Dr. Jeda said.
"You are not just treating the disease Covid-19, it's not like a Western medicine where you give one pill for one disease."
Qianwei Zhang in Beijing contributed to this article.
Write to Liza Lin at liza.lin@wsj.com
Approaching Covid Wave Tests China's Embrace of Herbal Remedies
Credit: By Liza Lin