Article Number: 199
Sindh Minister declares clinical trial on corona patients a major success
Sindh Minister for Health and Population Welfare Dr. Azra Fazal Pechuho has declared the clinical trial on the efficacy and safety of Jinhua Qinggan Granules (JHQG), conducted at the Center for Bioequivalence Studies and Clinical Research (CBSCR) for the Treatment of COVID-19 Patients successful, and significant for the treatment of Covid19 patients, says a Press release.
She said that this clinical trial at the CBSCR, Dr. Panjwani Center for Molecular Medicine and Drug Research, University of Karachi, represents the high level of expertise of Pakistani professionals in the field of clinical research.
She was speaking in the public announcement ceremony of the firstever successful clinical trial of Chinese medicine 'Jinhua Qinggan Granules' (JHQG) held on Monday at the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi.
The ceremony was jointly organized by the Sindh Health and Population Welfare Department, COMSTECH, ICCBS University of Karachi, and many Chinese institutions.
The ceremony was also addressed and attended by Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman, Chairman of Prime Minister's Task Force on Science and Technology, Prof. Dr. Khalid Iraqi, Vice Chancellor University of Karachi, Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary, Director of the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences, and COMSTECH Coordinator General, Excellency Mr. Nong Rong, Ambassador of The People's Republic of China in Pakistan, Excellency Mr. Moin ul Haque, Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in China, Prof. Dr. M. Raza Shah, Incharge of CBSCR and principal investigator of the study, Prof. Dr. Farzana Shaheen, Director (Acting) ICCBS, Dr. Yu Wenming (Video), Commissioner, National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, China, US expert Terry Lierman and other Chinese officials.
The health minister congratulated the experts involved in the clinical research and pointed out that Pakistan's capacity to conduct internationally registered clinical trials was an important step forward in meeting the challenges of the ever-increasing disease burden and preparing the nation for future health crises.
She said, "I am also pleased to announce that my ministry has recently set up Sino-Pakistan Traditional Medicine Center at the ICCBS with a support of Rs.
136 million with the objective of close collaboration in research and practice of traditional Chinese medicine for the benefit of people of Sindh province."
Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman said, "This is a historic occasion in many ways.
Firstly, this is the first-ever clinical trial of Chinese medicine, and secondly, this also owns the international stature."
He emphasized the deep and much broader bilateral relations of Pakistan and China and said that this close relation on the fronts of science and technology, higher education, and Information Technology are fostered with each passing day.
The future of this nation lies in developing a strong knowledge economy, he said.
Prof. Khalid Iraqi underlined the importance of taking precautionary measures in the ongoing pandemic and said that during the last 70 years, China had excelled in the field of traditional medicine.
He also highlighted the importance of the faculty role in academia and said that ICCBS had played a pivotal role in the development of its faculty.
Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary informed the participants that Juxiechang (Beijing) Pharmaceutical Company manufactured Jinhua Qinggan Granules (JHQG).
He said the CBSCR at the Dr. Panjwani Center was officially declared the center of the Sindh Health Department to conduct health-related research from the Sindh Government.
The center alone produces about 20 percent of the PhDs awarded in the chemical and biomedical sciences annually in Pakistan, and the students previously trained at the center are contributing significantly to the academic and industrial development of the country, he said.
He emphasized the fact that expertise in clinical trials is critically important in indigenous drug discovery and development.
Excellency Chinese Ambassador Nong Rong congratulated Pakistani scientists and officials for having successful clinical trials of Chinese medicine said that this clinical trial would enhance the bilateral cooperation between China and Pakistan.
Excellency Pakistani Ambassador Moin ul Haque appreciated the Chinese authorities for providing help to Pakistani health experts to overcome the ongoing pandemic.
He said, "Pakistan attaches great importance to developing economic and trade ties with China".
Prof. Dr. M. Raza Shah said that the mandate of CBSCR was to conduct clinical research on TCM-related products.
The treatment group showed rapid recovery from symptoms including Cough, Sputum, Sore Throat, Dyspnea, Headache, Nasal Obstruction, and Myalgia after administration of JHQG Granules, he said.
He said, "The Drug had no effect on routine blood tests, Urinalysis, Serum electrolytes, Liver function tests, Renal function tests, and ECGs of patients."