Article Number: 461
Singapore: Order Paper and Order Paper Supplement for the sitting on 1 August 2022
PETITION
Mr Leong Mun Wai (Non-Constituency Member): Petition Calling for Review of the Selective
En-Bloc Redevelopment Scheme (SERS) and Imposition of a Moratorium on SERS pending the Findings and Recommendation of the Review.
QUESTIONS FOR ORAL ANSWER*
*1.
Ms Sylvia Lim: To ask the Minister for Education with regard to the findings of the Auditor-General's Report for FY 2021/22 (a) what remedial actions are being taken by SkillsFuture Singapore in light of frauds and lapses in the disbursement of grants; (b) how much has been defrauded or overpaid since the inception of SkillsFuture; (c) how much have been recovered; and (d) whether any individuals overseeing the grant schemes have been or will be held accountable for the loss of public funds.
*2.
Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Minister for Education regarding the FY 2021/22 Auditor-General's Report finding that SkillsFuture Singapore (SSG) was lax in collecting Skills Development Levy (SDL) funds (a) what are the reasons and root causes as to why the discrepancy is not detected over five years; (b) how long will it take for SSG to collect back the required funds; and (c) what does the agency intend to do to prevent such similar grant management issues from occurring in the future.
*3.
Dr Tan Wu Meng: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance regarding the finding of the Auditor-General's Office (AGO) Report for the financial year 2021/22 that GSTV-U-Save rebates could have been given to ineligible households (a) what are the reasons and root causes for the reported time lag issues in the data used to determine eligibility; (b) whether there are households that are eligible but do not qualify during the initial eligibility assessment; and (c) if so, how many are there and whether these households have since received their rebates.
*4.
Mr Ang Wei Neng: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance (a) whether the Government is prepared for MAS to continue making net losses over the next one to two years should the tightening of monetary policy be maintained; and (b) whether and, if so how, will Government funding be affected by MAS' financial position.
*5.
Mr Vikram Nair: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance (a) whether MAS's $7.4 billion loss will have any impact on the Government budget; (b) if so, what is the impact; and (c) whether any reconsideration is needed on how MAS contributions in the Government budget is to be used given the volatility in its returns.
*6.
Mr Liang Eng Hwa: To ask the Prime Minister (a) whether he can clarify the context on the loss of $7.4 billion reported by MAS in their financial statement for FY2021/22; and (b) whether the recorded loss will have implications on the Government's strong Singapore dollar policy and overall budget position for the current financial year.
*7.
Ms Joan Pereira: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether the Ministry is observing an increasing trend in the COVID-19 re-infection rate given the continued emergence of new Omicron sub-variants; and (b) whether there are any plans to further expand the eligibility for second booster shots for younger age groups, especially when the vaccines are updated to deal with new variants or sub-variants.
*8.
Ms Joan Pereira: To ask the Minister for Health in view of the current wave of COVID-19 infections (a) what measures are in place or planned to be put in place to cope with the spike in the number of patients at general practitioner clinics, polyclinics and hospitals' emergency departments; and (b) whether there are plans to further support the growth of the telemedicine sector in Singapore to provide medical services for mild cases and to reduce the number of infected persons visiting physical clinics.
*9.
Mr Liang Eng Hwa: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether the recent wave of COVID-19 infections has resulted in much longer waiting times for patients at polyclinics and neighbourhood general practitioner clinics; (b) whether the waiting time and services can be improved; and (c) whether the capacity for primary care at the heartlands can be further stepped up.
*10.
Mr Seah Kian Peng: To ask the Minister for Health (a) what proportion of the Singapore population does the Ministry estimate has been infected with COVID-19, including unreported cases; and (b) whether Singapore has attained herd immunity with such an infection level.
*11.
Dr Wan Rizal: To ask the Minister for Health whether an update can be provided on the study by the Health Sciences Authority and the Expert Committee on COVID-19 Vaccination on the safety and effectiveness of COVID-19 vaccines formulated for young children aged under five years old.
*12.
Mr Chua Kheng Wee Louis: To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the number of foreign patient arrivals in Singapore in (i) 2022 year-to-date and (ii) each of the last five years; (b) what are the current utilisation rates of existing capacity by foreign patients in private and public hospitals respectively; and (c) what is the bed capacity in private and public hospitals (i) currently used and (ii) set aside, for COVID-19 hospitalisations in light of the rising number of COVID-19 cases.
*13.
Mr Dennis Tan Lip Fong: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether the Ministry plans to allow all adults below 50 years old to take their COVID-19 vaccination second booster under the National Vaccination Programme (NVP) and, if so, when is this expected; and (b) will all adults below 50 years old who wish to take their second booster due to travel requirements or concerns arising from travel plans be allowed to do so under the NVP.
*14.
Mr Dennis Tan Lip Fong: To ask the Minister for Health whether the recent deaths of two young children from COVID-19 on 27 June and 17 July 2022 raise any cause for concern regarding the susceptibility of young children to the recent COVID-19 strains, bearing in mind the relatively higher number of daily reported COVID-19 cases in recent weeks and the infectiousness of the recent strains.
*15.
Ms He Ting Ru: To ask the Minister for Health whether he can provide an update on the progress of the Ministry's evaluation of (i) COVID-19 vaccines for children under five years old and (ii) other types of COVID-19 vaccines that can be administered to children.
*16.
Dr Lim Wee Kiak: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether there is any new evidence of community spread of local monkeypox cases; (b) how many doses of smallpox vaccines have been administered; and (c) whether there is an adequate stockpile of vaccines to protect the vulnerable groups.
*17.
Mr Liang Eng Hwa: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) whether the Ministry will consider reviewing the criteria of the Silver Support Scheme so that more seniors in need of the support can be assisted; and (b) whether the criteria for the scheme can be better communicated and explained to the seniors.
*18.
Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye: To ask the Minister for Manpower how does the Ministry intend to enhance the workplace safety and health of food delivery riders who are often incentivised by food delivery platforms to deliver as many orders as possible during peak hours, which may result in endangering their lives.
*19.
Mr Desmond Choo: To ask the Minister for Trade and Industry (a) how many SMEs have engaged with Centres of Innovation in local Institutes of Higher Learning (IHLs) to support their research and development efforts; (b) whether the Ministry can provide a breakdown of the successfully commercialised ideas by SMEs in partnership with IHLs according to industry sectors; and (c) how can SMEs' engagement with IHLs be boosted to better tap on the expertise and technological capabilities of IHLs.
*20.
Mr Louis Ng Kok Kwang: To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the minimum number of hours of rest a nurse should have between shifts; and (b) how does the Ministry ensure that restructured hospitals' rosters allow nurses to have that minimum number of hours of rest.
*21.
Mr Louis Ng Kok Kwang: To ask the Minister for Health whether the Ministry will broaden the National Wellness Committee's scope of work to also include the working hours and conditions of nurses instead of only for junior doctors.
*22.
Ms Foo Mee Har: To ask the Minister for Trade and Industry (a) how many SMEs have benefited from the Enterprise Financing Scheme Green (EFS- Green); and (b) what is preventing more SMEs from rapid adoption of this scheme.
*23.
Ms Hazel Poa: To ask the Minister for Trade and Industry (a) whether there is any difference in the rate of increase of the Consumer Price Index (CPI) as compared to the rate of increase in cost of living; and (b) if so, why.
*24.
Mr Shawn Huang Wei Zhong: To ask the Minister for Trade and Industry whether the Ministry is able to provide a comparative table of inflation for essential items in Singapore and other developed countries for the past three years.
*25.
Mr Ang Wei Neng: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance in light of persistent high inflation rates in the last few months, whether the Ministry will consider (i) bringing the distribution of CDC vouchers forward to the third quarter of 2022 instead of January 2023 and (ii) issuing $100 CDC vouchers to every Singaporean aged more than 21 years old instead of to each household.
*26.
Ms Foo Mee Har: To ask the Minister for Trade and Industry (a) what is the extent of SMEs in Singapore adopting sustainability practices and initiatives as part of their growth plans; and (b) how are they supported with sector- based frameworks and pre-identified solutions to fast track adoption.
*27.
Ms Sylvia Lim: To ask the Minister for Trade and Industry (a) what is the Ministry's updated assessment of the energy supply situation in Singapore for the rest of 2022, in the light of global competition for limited supplies of liquefied natural gas; and (b) whether the Government will consider any further measures to manage the affordability of electricity costs to businesses and consumers for the period.
*28.
Mr Seah Kian Peng: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) whether there is an overpopulation of animals such as monkeys and otters in recent years; and (b) what is the Ministry's assessment of the disamenities caused to public properties and residents' lifestyles due to such overpopulation.
*29.
Dr Tan Wu Meng: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) from 2021 to date, how many reports have been received regarding wild monkeys (i) intruding into homes and (ii) attacking, harassing or causing injury to humans; (b) whether there are measures being taken to manage or reduce the risk of such incidents while balancing the importance of respecting wildlife amidst the vision of a city in nature; and (c) if so, what are they.
*30.
Mr Shawn Huang Wei Zhong: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) over the last five years, what is the estimated population of the long-tailed macaque in Singapore; (b) how many feedback cases has the Ministry received for monkey intrusions into homes during the same period; and (c) what are the current measures taken and long-term strategy in managing the habitat and the population of the long-tailed macaque.
*31.
Ms Nadia Ahmad Samdin: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) what public outreach efforts are in place to better understand public sentiments towards human-wildlife co-existence as part of our City in Nature efforts; (b) whether there are resources available to cultivate a more holistic awareness and understanding of the effects of strengthening ecological connectivity near residential areas; and (c) if so, what are they.
*32.
Mr Patrick Tay Teck Guan: To ask the Minister for Education whether the Ministry will consider prohibiting those who had committed or convicted of sexual offences and violent crimes from practising as an educator, tuition teacher or enrichment teacher.
*33.
Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Minister for Education given that it has been a year after the alleged murder in one of our schools (a) whether efforts taken by schools in the past year to enhance the mental health of students and teachers have yielded measurable outcomes, such as, inter alia, an increase in students or teachers seeking counselling; (b) whether students and parents feel safe about their school environment; and (c) whether schools are still having active conversations with students about mental health.
*34.
Ms He Ting Ru: To ask the Minister for Education (a) whether the learning points and additional resources available to River Valley High School in the last year since the tragedy will be made available to other schools where necessary; and (b) what learning points or additional processes will be incorporated into the wider school and education system to provide better support and safe environments for other school communities.
*35.
Ms Denise Phua Lay Peng: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment whether the Government will ban the installation and display of LED wreaths, lanterns, balloon arches and similar items at funerals.
*36.
Mr Lim Biow Chuan: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment whether the Government will regulate the supply of LED wreaths at funeral wakes to ensure that the supplier is responsible for ensuring that the LED wreaths are safe for use with separate power supply.
*37.
Dr Tan Wu Meng: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) whether the Ministry has conducted (i) updated studies of social capital in Singapore especially since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and (ii) studies on how the pandemic has affected the social capital situation, especially for families, youths and children starting with less; and (b) what is being done to strengthen social capital, access to networks and network diversity in Singapore.
*38.
Mr Gan Thiam Poh: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) in
the past five years, how many applicants for HDB BTO flats in Sengkang and Punggol have been unsuccessful; and (b) what is the projected total number of new HDB BTO flats in Sengkang and Punggol by room type in the next five years.
*39.
Ms He Ting Ru: To ask the Minister for Education whether there are steps in place to ensure that sexual health and sexuality education in schools (i) address public concerns about the subject matters (ii) are based on the best available science and evidence (iii) have clear guidelines about educators sharing their personal and religious views and how these are presented and (iv) are conducted in ways that are non-discriminatory, avoid stigmatisation, and seek to reduce harm.
*40.
Ms Hany Soh: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment whether the Ministry will consider island-wide distribution of mosquito repellent so as to increase awareness and encourage more frequent use of such repellents as protection against mosquito bites.
*41.
Mr Gerald Giam Yean Song: To ask the Minister for Education (a) what levels of confidentiality are school counsellors obliged to maintain vis-à-vis the students they counsel; (b) in what circumstances do counsellors inform the students' teachers and/or parents about their findings during counselling sessions; (c) whether these sharings will have an impact on the students' school-based leadership opportunities; and (d) what is the Ministry doing to put students more at ease about seeking counselling at school to address mental health issues.
*42.
Mr Murali Pillai: To ask the Minister for Communications and Information with regard to IMDA's Cross Carriage Measure (CCM) (a) whether, as a policy, a transmitting or receiving pay TV operator has the discretion not to share or broadcast exclusive content under the CCM; and (b) whether there are measures to ensure that both Singtel and StarHub have a joint obligation to broadcast all English Premier League matches live even if the number of matches being played at the material time may exceed the four channels allotted by Singtel and, if so, what are they.
*43.
Mr Murali Pillai: To ask the Minister for Communications and Information why does IMDA allow StarHub to impose a subscription price of $64.90 per month for Premier League Pack via cross-carriage, in comparison to the preferential charge of $19.99 per month for subscribers applying by 30 June 2022 for the same programme via StarHub's set-top boxes.
*44.
Mr Kwek Hian Chuan Henry: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance whether future financial packages to help Singaporeans offset the cost of living will consider per capita annual value of their homes so that larger families living in non-HDB flats can be better supported by the Government.
*45.
Mr Kwek Hian Chuan Henry: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance in view of the current downturn in the startup and technology sectors, whether IRAS will review the taxation policy on gains from the exercise of share options, especially in situations where the value of stock options declines tremendously after the initial assessment of tax due.
*46.
Ms Yeo Wan Ling: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance (a) whether Government procurement processes have started to take into account outcome-based considerations in their awarding criteria; and (b) what are some of these considerations especially for industries that have or are adopting Progressive Wage Models.
*47.
Mr Edward Chia Bing Hui: To ask the Minister for Transport given the rollout of more dedicated cycling paths and promotion of cycling within towns, what are the safety precautions to prevent collisions between cyclists and pedestrians at key intersections such as bus stops, traffic light junctions, and exit points of residential developments.
*48.
Mr Leon Perera: To ask the Minister for Transport (a) what is the rationale for increasing ERP charges in May and June; (b) what is the impact of these higher ERP charges in terms of traffic congestion; (c) what is the effect of the higher ERP charges on the Consumer Price Index (CPI); and (d) whether any further increases to ERP charges this year can be halted in view of high petrol prices and general inflation.
*49.
Mr Gerald Giam Yean Song: To ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs (a) what privileges, immunities and hospitality are accorded to former Heads of State or Heads of Government who visit or transit through Singapore; (b) whether any public resources are expended in such instances; and (c) whether the former Sri Lankan President was accorded any privileges, immunities and hospitality in Singapore following his resignation.
*50.
Mr Leon Perera: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether any studies have been conducted to (i) ascertain the efficacy of work weeks of up to 80 hours on junior doctors' training outcomes vis-à-vis a shorter work week of 70 hours and (ii) assess the potential impact of long working hours on patient and doctor safety; and (b) if not, whether the Government will consider conducting such studies and publishing the findings.
*51.
Ms Joan Pereira: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether the Ministry has observed an increase in the number of sudden heart failures in the general population over the past three years; and (b) whether there can be more public education programmes to help people better spot signs and symptoms of heart failure.
*52.
Mr Chua Kheng Wee Louis: To ask the Minister for Transport given passenger traffic at Changi Airport in June 2022 has reached the target of 50% of pre-pandemic levels, whether the Government has reassessed passenger traffic targets for end- 2022 and 2023 and, if so what are they.
*53.
Mr Shawn Huang Wei Zhong: To ask the Minister for Transport (a) what is the current progress of the re-opening of Changi Airport's air routes; (b) how does Changi Airport currently rank amongst regional and global air hubs on connectivity and passenger volume; and (c) what is the projected progress of the re-opening of Changi Airport's air routes by end of 2022.
*54.
Mr Desmond Choo: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) what roles do employers and service buyers play in mitigating the risk of abuse faced by security officers; and (b) whether there are plans to review employers' and service buyers' practices to mitigate the risk of abuse of security officers by ensuring that security rules imposed are not unreasonable and through better deployment of technology to minimise in-person interactions with the officers.
*55.
Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) whether the enhanced protection for security officers under the amendments to the Private Security Industry Act are sufficient to deter cases of abuse; and (b) what is the plan to help members of the public internalise anti-abuse messages and treat security officers with more respect.
*56.
Mr Pritam Singh: To ask the Minister for Health how does the Ministry plan to engage and involve traditional Chinese medicine practitioners under the Healthier SG initiative.
*57.
Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) what is the policy on allowing foreigners wanted by their government to transit or enter Singapore temporarily pending their onward flight; (b) under what circumstances will such requests be rejected outright; (c) whether the Singapore Government is responsible for the personal safety of these foreigners during their stay here; and (d) what is the Government's response to concerns that Singapore will become a destination for political fugitives.
*58.
Mr Leon Perera: To ask the Minister for National Development what recourse is available to HDB flat lessees to obtain compensation when they have been inappropriately pressured by or were given misrepresentations by Home Improvement Programme (HIP) contractors to opt in for HIP works.
*59.
Mr Lim Biow Chuan: To ask the Minister for National Development whether HDB will impose an immediate suspension or debarment of renovation contractors who illegally dump renovation debris at common areas of HDB flats.
*60.
Mr Gan Thiam Poh: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) in the last five years, how many HDB flat owners have breached HDB's terms and conditions for the renting out of their rooms; (b) what are the common reasons provided for breaching these terms and conditions; (c) whether appeals are made against HDB's revocation of the rental approval due to the breach; and (d) if so, how many appeals have been successful.
*61.
Ms Mariam Jaafar: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) what is the current number of applications for a HDB Loan Eligibility (HLE) letter made by Singapore citizens with spouses holding Long-Term Visit Passes (LTVP) who do not have a CPF account; and (b) whether the income of the spouse holding a LTVP is factored into the housing loan quantum indicated in the approved HLE letter.
*62.
Mr Pritam Singh: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) whether the Government will release race-based and/or community-based data that are shared in closed-door settings with community leaders and groups, to Members of Parliament on a confidential basis if need be; and (b) if not, why.
*63.
Mr Chua Kheng Wee Louis: To ask the Minister for National Development with regard to the 70 Lim Chu Kang farms that have their leases extended till July 2022 and February 2023 (a) how many farms have been successful at securing a replacement site; (b) whether any financial and non-financial support has been extended to these farms to help with their relocation and, if so, what are they; and (c) what is the expected date for the commencement of development works at the sites for military use.
*64.
Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye: To ask the Minister for Manpower arising from the Employment Standards Report 2021 (a) what proportion of wrongful dismissal claims and salary disputes in 2021 pertained to PMETs; and (b) among the less than 1% of salary claims in 2021 that involved wilful employers who refused to make full payment for salary arrears despite having the means to do so, how many cases have been successfully prosecuted to date.
*58.
Mr Leon Perera: To ask the Minister for National Development what recourse is available to HDB flat lessees to obtain compensation when they have been inappropriately pressured by or were given misrepresentations by Home Improvement Programme (HIP) contractors to opt in for HIP works.
*59.
Mr Lim Biow Chuan: To ask the Minister for National Development whether HDB will impose an immediate suspension or debarment of renovation contractors who illegally dump renovation debris at common areas of HDB flats.
*60.
Mr Gan Thiam Poh: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) in the last five years, how many HDB flat owners have breached HDB's terms and conditions for the renting out of their rooms; (b) what are the common reasons provided for breaching these terms and conditions; (c) whether appeals are made against HDB's revocation of the rental approval due to the breach; and (d) if so, how many appeals have been successful.
*61.
Ms Mariam Jaafar: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) what is the current number of applications for a HDB Loan Eligibility (HLE) letter made by Singapore citizens with spouses holding Long-Term Visit Passes (LTVP) who do not have a CPF account; and (b) whether the income of the spouse holding a LTVP is factored into the housing loan quantum indicated in the approved HLE letter.
*62.
Mr Pritam Singh: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) whether the Government will release race-based and/or community-based data that are shared in closed-door settings with community leaders and groups, to Members of Parliament on a confidential basis if need be; and (b) if not, why.
*63.
Mr Chua Kheng Wee Louis: To ask the Minister for National Development with regard to the 70 Lim Chu Kang farms that have their leases extended till July 2022 and February 2023 (a) how many farms have been successful at securing a replacement site; (b) whether any financial and non-financial support has been extended to these farms to help with their relocation and, if so, what are they; and (c) what is the expected date for the commencement of development works at the sites for military use.
*64.
Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye: To ask the Minister for Manpower arising from the Employment Standards Report 2021 (a) what proportion of wrongful dismissal claims and salary disputes in 2021 pertained to PMETs; and (b) among the less than 1% of salary claims in 2021 that involved wilful employers who refused to make full payment for salary arrears despite having the means to do so, how many cases have been successfully prosecuted to date.
*72.
Mr Edward Chia Bing Hui: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth in light of the learning points from the Singapore Sports Hub public-private partnership (PPP) project agreement which the Government has decided to terminate, what will be the new safeguards, guidelines and considerations placed on all Government agencies and statutory boards when executing another PPP in the future.
*73.
Mr Edward Chia Bing Hui: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) what are the considerations behind the termination of the public-private partnership (PPP) project agreement for Singapore Sports Hub; (b) what has been the total cost to the Government for keeping the PPP running in terms of the (i) financial costs and (ii) non-financial costs; and (c) what will be the anticipated cost of it being run fully by SportSG.
*74.
Dr Wan Rizal: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth with regard to the Singapore Sports Hub, what plans does SportSG have to (i) manage its facilities to encourage better utilisation (ii) attract world-class competitions and talents and (iii) allow more Singaporeans to access the facilities.
*75.
Mr Saktiandi Supaat: To ask the Minister for Transport (a) whether the Ministry has conducted any studies to identify the respective demand-side and supply-side causes of recent booking difficulties and price surges of private hire cars and taxis; and (b) whether the Ministry will consider liberalising current regulations limiting private motor cars to two paid carpooling trips a day.
*76.
Mr Murali Pillai: To ask the Minister for Transport whether the Ministry will consider conducting a feasibility study on the construction of exclusive motorcycle lanes along expressways to deal with the high road accident casualty rate amongst motorcyclists and pillion riders compared to other road users.
*77.
Dr Lim Wee Kiak: To ask the Minister for Transport whether there are plans to consider expanding the Walk2Ride programme to build more covered walkways that benefit residents who live within an 800-metre radius of all MRT stations.
*78.
Ms Yeo Wan Ling: To ask the Minister for Transport whether the Ministry plans to provide guidelines to vehicle rental companies on recommended rental rates for vehicles hired for the driving trade, such as private hire vehicles.
*79.
Mr Lim Biow Chuan: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth whether Sports Hub Pte Ltd can be tasked to manage traffic and parking in the public areas around the Sports Hub to ensure that there is no massive traffic congestion or illegal parking in these areas whenever there are major events held there.
* Members may postpone their Questions to a later sitting day if their Questions are not reached by the end of Question Time (QT).
For such Questions, Members may email to parl_cop@parl.gov.sg in advance a postponement notice that will be effected after QT.
Members must submit their notices to the Clerk within one hour after the end of QT (SO22(3)).
Questions will be given a written answer if no such notices are received by the Clerk within the stipulated time.
MINISTERIAL STATEMENT
Minister for Culture, Community and Youth: Unlocking the Sports Hub's Full Potential for Singapore.
AT THE COMMENCEMENT OF PUBLIC BUSINESS
Introduction of Government Bills
Minister for Home Affairs:
Debt Collection Bill.
Minister for Home Affairs:
Registration of Criminals (Amendment) Bill.
Minister for Trade and Industry:
Singapore Tourism Board (Amendment) Bill.
ORDERS OF THE DAY
Public Defenders Bill [Bill No.
17/2022] - (Minister for Law) - Second Reading.
[For amendment on the Bill, see Supplement No.
12 dated 1 August 2022.]
Singapore Armed Forces and Other Matters Bill [Bill No.
15/2022] - (Minister for Defence) - Second Reading.
Constitution of the Republic of Singapore (Amendment No.
2) Bill [Bill No.
16/2022] - (Minister for Defence) - Second Reading.
MEMORANDUM
Matter proposed to be raised on the Motion for the Adjournment (SO 2(8)(b)).
Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye (Radin Mas): Keeping our Workers and Workplaces Safe.
QUESTIONS FOR WRITTEN ANSWER
Mr Saktiandi Supaat: To ask the Prime Minister (a) whether there is data on the extent of Singaporeans' exposure to the recent collapse in value of the TerraUSD (UST) stablecoin and the Luna token; (b) whether there are further systemic risks to the economy arising out of fundraising efforts to shore up the UST through the Luna Foundation Guard; and (c) what is the status of the MAS' review and consideration of its overarching regulatory approach towards crypto assets including stablecoins.
Mr Leon Perera: To ask the Prime Minister (a) when was the last review of the Civil Service salary structure; and (b) when is the next planned review.
Mr Leong Mun Wai: To ask the Prime Minister (a) how many eligible voters are among the Singaporeans residing overseas; and (b) which are the top 30 countries that overseas Singaporean voters reside in and their respective number in each country.
Mr Desmond Choo: To ask the Prime Minister (a) how many payment service licences have been awarded to digital payment token (DPT) service providers; (b) of these DPT service providers, how many have suffered significant adverse business impact from the volatile cryptocurrency market; and (c) whether there are plans to continue promoting Singapore as a cryptocurrency hub.
Mr Desmond Choo: To ask the Prime Minister regarding the review arising from the phishing scam on OCBC customers (a) what is the interim arrangement or understanding with banks when losses occur, pending the completion of the proposed framework for equitable sharing of losses arising from scams; and (b) whether the Ministry has seen a decrease in the prevalence of bank-targeted scams since safeguards such as the removal of clickable links in e-mails or SMSes sent to retail customers were implemented earlier this year.
Mr Don Wee: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance regarding the Appraisers Act 1906, whether the Ministry will consider including recognition of reports by chartered valuers and appraisers accredited by the Singapore Institute of Valuers and Appraisers in addition to reports by the Singapore Institute of Surveyors and Valuers.
Ms Mariam Jaafar: To ask the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance how many Singaporeans who received the GST Vouchers in 2021 are not receiving GST Vouchers in 2022.
Mr Leong Mun Wai: To ask the Minister for Defence since 2000, how many new citizens have male children below the age of 18 when the Singapore permanent residency or citizenships are obtained and these children subsequently did not serve national service when they reach 18 years of age or older.
Assoc Prof Jamus Jerome Lim: To ask the Minister for Defence whether the Ministry will consider providing further clarity on national service enlistment dates beyond approximately two months, particularly to preclude short notification enlistment notifications of two weeks.
Mr Dennis Tan Lip Fong: To ask the Minister for Defence (a) for each year from 2016 to 2021 how many regular specialists who were not Warrant Officers retired from the SAF by the age of 50; and (b) whether the Ministry tracks the career progression of these retired specialists and, if so, what are the top five jobs taken up by them upon retirement.
Mr Zhulkarnain Abdul Rahim: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs given the legalisation of the cannabis trade in Thailand, what are the plans for preventive drug education or campaigns for increased awareness to combat drug abuse and the harms of drugs especially for youths or students travelling overseas.
Ms Sylvia Lim: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs regarding education and re-skilling programmes available to prisoners (a) whether there are any capacity constraints for such programmes that result in waiting lists; (b) on what basis are inmates prioritised in the event of capacity limits for these programmes; and (c) whether inmates serving long sentences such as life imprisonment or 20 years or more, are able to access such programmes at their discretion during their incarceration or whether these opportunities are offered towards the tail end of their imprisonment terms.
Ms Sylvia Lim: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) over the last five years, how many prisoners have passed away due to natural causes related to old age; (b) of these prisoners who have passed away, what are the offences committed for their imprisonment; and (c) what is the age of the oldest prisoner currently incarcerated.
Mr Don Wee: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) what measures are in place to prevent or minimise access by Singaporeans and local residents to internet websites with information on how to make restricted and dangerous devices and weapons such as bombs and guns; and (b) whether the Ministry has the capability to identify and monitor these persons who seek such information.
Ms Joan Pereira: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs what measures are in place to counter the dangers of indoctrination via social media, especially for messages targeted at vulnerable groups and youths.
Mr Christopher de Souza: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs how have the Home Team Science and Technology Agency and the Anti-Scam Centre (i) targeted and deterred scammers and (ii) further plans to help victims of such scams to recover monies.
Mr Christopher de Souza: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs what agencies and organisations have partnered the Anti-Scam Command to raise awareness on scams and protect Singaporeans.
Mr Christopher de Souza: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs whether all major banks in Singapore have employees working from the Anti-Scam Centre to facilitate the cooperation in targeting and bringing down online scams.
Mr Murali Pillai: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs on the Auditor- General's Office (AGO) Report for the financial year 2021/22 regarding star rate items' cost reasonableness of contract variations and quotations authenticity for two development projects under MHA (a) whether any additional steps were implemented following AGO's similar finding in relation to HDB for the previous financial year and, if not, why not; and (b) what further steps will be taken to strengthen the oversight of its project consultants in charge of assessing cost reasonableness of these contract variations.
Mr Zhulkarnain Abdul Rahim: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs what efforts and steps does the Government take together with the telecommunications and social media companies to detect and prevent the advertisement of controlled substances or drugs in closed social networks, such as group chats.
Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) for the past year, how many Personal Mobility Device (PMD)-related fires have occurred in HDB blocks; (b) whether there is an increasing trend on the occurrence of such fires since 2021; (c) how many of these cases are due to non-compliance of the UL2272 standards which is required; and (d) whether PMD owners will face penalties when the cause of the fire is due to non- compliance.
Mr Leong Mun Wai: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs for each year since 2000, what is the gender and age breakdown of new citizens at the point of obtaining citizenship according to the age brackets of (i) below 18 years old (ii) between 18 and 30 years old (iii) between 30 and 40 years old and (iv) above 40 years old respectively.
Mr Leong Mun Wai: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) for each year since 2000, how many new citizens have renounced their Singapore citizenship; and (b) for each year from 2000 to 2018, how many permanent residents (PRs) have renounced their PR status.
Ms Nadia Ahmad Samdin: To ask the Minister for Law with regard to foreign domestic workers who seek to take loans from moneylenders in Singapore (a) whether there are any due diligence and credit checks currently in place and, if so, what are they; and (b) whether there are safeguards being implemented to ensure that foreigners earning less than $10,000 per annum do not exceed the aggregate loan cap of $500 and, if so, what are they.
Mr Murali Pillai: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs on the Auditor- General's Office (AGO) Report for the financial year 2021/22 regarding star rate items' cost reasonableness of contract variations and quotations authenticity for two development projects under MHA (a) whether any additional steps were implemented following AGO's similar finding in relation to HDB for the previous financial year and, if not, why not; and (b) what further steps will be taken to strengthen the oversight of its project consultants in charge of assessing cost reasonableness of these contract variations.
Mr Zhulkarnain Abdul Rahim: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs what efforts and steps does the Government take together with the telecommunications and social media companies to detect and prevent the advertisement of controlled substances or drugs in closed social networks, such as group chats.
Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) for the past year, how many Personal Mobility Device (PMD)-related fires have occurred in HDB blocks; (b) whether there is an increasing trend on the occurrence of such fires since 2021; (c) how many of these cases are due to non-compliance of the UL2272 standards which is required; and (d) whether PMD owners will face penalties when the cause of the fire is due to non- compliance.
Mr Leong Mun Wai: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs for each year since 2000, what is the gender and age breakdown of new citizens at the point of obtaining citizenship according to the age brackets of (i) below 18 years old (ii) between 18 and 30 years old (iii) between 30 and 40 years old and (iv) above 40 years old respectively.
Mr Leong Mun Wai: To ask the Minister for Home Affairs (a) for each year since 2000, how many new citizens have renounced their Singapore citizenship; and (b) for each year from 2000 to 2018, how many permanent residents (PRs) have renounced their PR status.
Ms Nadia Ahmad Samdin: To ask the Minister for Law with regard to foreign domestic workers who seek to take loans from moneylenders in Singapore (a) whether there are any due diligence and credit checks currently in place and, if so, what are they; and (b) whether there are safeguards being implemented to ensure that foreigners earning less than $10,000 per annum do not exceed the aggregate loan cap of $500 and, if so, what are they.
Mr Melvin Yong Yik Chye: To ask the Minister for Transport (a) what are the risks of an electric vehicle (EV) catching fire while in operation; and (b) whether first responders such as those operating the Expressway Monitoring Advisory System vehicle recovery tow trucks have been trained to handle EV-related fires.
Dr Shahira Abdullah: To ask the Minister for Transport with the rollout of the NaviLens app to help visually impaired commuters at SMRT's bus interchanges (a) how will LTA better enable visually impaired commuters who are not technologically savvy to travel more independently, safely and conveniently; and (b) what are the future improvement plans for bus stops and interchanges so that the visually impaired can be better at independently identifying arriving bus services.
Mr Saktiandi Supaat: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) from 2019 to 2021, what is the annual ratio of successful tenderers to unsuccessful tenderers for hawker stalls selling cooked food in the Toa Payoh area; (b) what are the mean and median bid prices among such successful tenders; and (c) whether the Government will consider giving incentives or prioritising coffeeshop stallholders who are displaced as a result of increase in rentals.
Ms Joan Pereira: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) in the last three years, how many hawker stalls are left empty each year; (b) on average, how long do these stalls remain vacant; and (c) what plans are there to help hawkers who are made to give up their stalls for various reasons.
Ms Hany Soh: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) whether the Ministry has explored the efficacy of anti-Aedes mosquito paint; and (b) if such paint is proven efficient, whether there are plans to encourage more buildings, especially HDB flats undergoing repainting works, to adopt such paint in areas such as common corridors and void decks.
Mr Shawn Huang Wei Zhong: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) what percentage of the freshwater bodies in Singapore are open to the public for recreation; and (b) whether there are plans to further open up access and increase the number of approved water activities in those freshwater bodies.
Mr Pritam Singh: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment (a) as of June 2022, how many licensed plumbers are (i) Singaporeans (ii) permanent residents and (iii) foreigners respectively; (b) of those with such a licence who are non-Singaporeans, what are (i) the top 10 nationalities and (ii) the type of work pass that they hold respectively; and (c) what are the age profiles of all workers with such a licence.
Dr Shahira Abdullah: To ask the Minister for Sustainability and the Environment as Singapore ramps up solar energy deployment to meet growing clean energy needs (a) how is Singapore tackling solar panel waste; and (b) what are the future plans regarding solar panel recycling.
Ms He Ting Ru: To ask the Minister for Education in relation to the TRANsition Support for InTegration (TRANSIT) programme (a) what is the current average, lowest and highest class size of the students who are enrolled in this programme; and (b) how many teachers, excluding allied educators, are deployed to each class under this programme.
Mr Don Wee: To ask the Minister for Education whether the Ministry would consider reviewing the process for Primary 1 registration to give parents an additional option of registering their interests in a few schools for a single application during each phase, instead of registering for only one school at any phase as the child may not be allocated to that school in the earlier phase.
Mr Louis Ng Kok Kwang: To ask the Minister for Education (a) whether the Ministry will remove the punitive implications for teachers who receive lower grades under the performance management system of stacked ranking; and (b) if not, why not.
Dr Wan Rizal: To ask the Minister for Education (a) whether an update can be provided on strengthening students' mental well-being and improving their mental health literacy through the refreshed Character and Citizenship Education curriculum; (b) whether the curriculum is well-received by students and teachers; and (c) whether the refreshed curriculum has been rolled out to the primary, upper secondary and pre-university levels.
Dr Wan Rizal: To ask the Minister for Education how many students from schools and Institutes of Higher Learning have received counselling on mental health related issues over the past two years.
Mr Leong Mun Wai: To ask the Minister for Education since the inception of SkillsFuture programmes (a) what is the annual expenditure; and (b) what is the number of fraud cases and the amount defrauded.
Mr Muhamad Faisal Abdul Manap: To ask the Minister for Education (a) how many local researchers and experts are employed or hired by NUS Infant and Child Language Centre to conduct research and development programmes for Malay and Tamil languages; (b) whether the Centre will recruit locals as part of the plan to expand and enhance its capabilities; (c) whether the Centre has conducted any collaborations and inter-agency work or deployment with other institutions and agencies such as Yayasan Mendaki and the Singapore Indian Development Association (SINDA); and (d) whether there are plans for other local universities to establish similar research centres in the coming years.
Assoc Prof Jamus Jerome Lim: To ask the Minister for Education in light of SMU's review of its vetting procedures on academic integrity, whether the Ministry will consider launching an independent investigation and review into the hiring practices of professors at the autonomous universities.
Mr Christopher de Souza: To ask the Minister for Social and Family Development beyond the phone hotlines and online counselling services, whether there are avenues for individuals to procure urgent and immediate meetings with counsellors or a trained professional to talk to.
Ms He Ting Ru: To ask the Minister for Social and Family Development in relation to infant care and child care subsidies (a) for each month in the last two years, how many applications are made under the Special Approval framework for each of the schemes; (b) how many are successful for each of the schemes; and (c) whether children living in public rental flats or in households receiving Comcare will continue to qualify for maximum preschool subsidies automatically until the next fixed point of assessment, regardless of their mother's working status.
Assoc Prof Jamus Jerome Lim: To ask the Minister for Social and Family Development how does the Ministry determine the duration of ComCare assistance offered to residents in need.
Mr Christopher de Souza: To ask the Minister for Social and Family Development whether the Office of the Public Guardian will consider extending its services to individuals who do have mental capacity yet may be pressured into making less than fully-informed decisions or be taken advantage of, such as individuals with special needs.
Ms Foo Mee Har: To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the current annual number of Singaporeans who are required to top-up cash for their medical expenses after hitting the MediSave withdrawal limit; and (b) what is the average balance in these MediSave accounts.
Mr Louis Ng Kok Kwang: To ask the Minister for Health in each of the past five years, how many and what percentage of local and foreign nurses respectively have resigned from the restructured hospitals.
Mr Zhulkarnain Abdul Rahim: To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the current percentage of COVID-19 patients who have been treated with oral antiviral drugs; and (b) whether the Ministry will consider approving the use of such drugs for the treatment of toddlers or young children who are infected with COVID-19 and are unvaccinated.
Mr Shawn Huang Wei Zhong: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether he can provide an update on the longitudinal studies thus far on effects of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccinations; and (b) whether there are any new observations on the efficacy of vaccinations after subsequent boosters.
Mr Zhulkarnain Abdul Rahim: To ask the Minister for Health what steps can be done to accurately detect, diagnose and treat COVID-19 among symptomatic children under the age of 12 years in an efficient and expeditious manner, such as making PCR test and hospitalisation mandatory especially for children who are vulnerable, unvaccinated or under the age of five years.
Dr Shahira Abdullah: To ask the Minister for Health whether the Government will consider changing the current protocol to one advising all children under 12 years old who are infected by COVID-19 to be seen by a doctor even if they feel well.
Ms Nadia Ahmad Samdin: To ask the Minister for Health (a) in each of the past three years, what is the number of cases managed by Community Resource, Engagement and Support Teams (CREST) and Community Intervention Teams (COMIT) respectively; and (b) whether there is an increasing demand or trend in the types of support required.
Ms Sylvia Lim: To ask the Minister for Health (a) what is the Government's assessment of osteopathic medicine as a treatment option for musculoskeletal problems and overall health; and (b) whether there are any plans to register and regulate osteopaths as allied health professionals in Singapore.
Assoc Prof Jamus Jerome Lim: To ask the Minister for Health (a) whether the pilot WHEELS programme that provides wheelchair servicing at selected Senior Activity Centres (SAC) is still ongoing; and (b) if so, whether it is being progressively rolled out to all SACs nationwide.
Assoc Prof Jamus Jerome Lim: To ask the Minister for Health whether the Ministry is considering enhancements to the Seniors' Mobility and Enabling Fund to include mid-life servicing costs for devices not near its end-of-life period.
Mr Muhamad Faisal Abdul Manap: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) since the inception of Project Dian@M³ on 17 June 2021, how many Malay households have managed to attain home ownership under this scheme; and (b) whether a breakdown can be provided on the number of these Malay households according to the zones of Geylang Serai, Bedok and Jalan Besar respectively.
Mr Muhamad Faisal Abdul Manap: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) between January 2022 and June 2022, how many Malay households have moved from 1- and 2-room HDB public rental flats and successfully become homeowners of HDB flats; (b) between June 2021 and June 2022, how many Malay households have relinquished their HDB flat ownership and applied for HDB public rental flats; and (c) how many Malay households are living in 1- and 2-room HDB public rental flats as of 30 June 2022.
Mr Liang Eng Hwa: To ask the Minister for National Development (a) whether there has been an increasing number of feedback received on nuisances caused by the growing number of crows and pigeons in recent years; and (b) whether an update can be provided on the effectiveness of the current measures in reducing the nuisances caused to residents.
Mr Chua Kheng Wee Louis: To ask the Minister for National Development with regard to households whose flats have been acquired under the Selective En bloc Redevelopment Scheme (SERS) and subjected to the resale levy (a) whether HDB has waived such resale levies on a case-by-case basis in the past; and (b) whether HDB will consider granting an exemption to current and future affected households.
Mr Chua Kheng Wee Louis: To ask the Minister for National Development whether total household income, including that of the non-resident spouse, is used when assessing HDB housing loan applications made under the Non- Citizen Spouse Scheme.
Ms Mariam Jaafar: To ask the Minister for National Development whether the number of additional ballot chances can be exponentially ramped up for applicants with more than five unsuccessful attempts to buy a HDB BTO flat or HDB Sale of Balance of Flats in non-mature estates.
Dr Tan Wu Meng: To ask the Minister for Communications and Information (a) whether additional safeguards or regulatory measures can be taken to prevent unsolicited messages from being sent to Singaporeans regarding unlicensed loans and illegal gambling websites; (b) to what extent such messages can be tracked to their point of origin; and (c) what are the current steps being taken to crack down on syndicates sending such unsolicited messages.
Mr Saktiandi Supaat: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) what percentage of Singaporean households have claimed their Community Development Council (CDC) vouchers in the recent May 2022 distribution exercise; (b) what is the total value of vouchers redeemed to date; and (c) whether the Government has conducted any studies on the utilisation of the CDC vouchers, so that targeted measures can be designed to benefit specific businesses or segments of Singaporeans.
Mr Gerald Giam Yean Song: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) what sports facilities will be provided at the proposed housing development cum sports centre site at Farrer Park; (b) whether the total area available for sports facilities in Farrer Park will be reduced from the current area as a result of this redevelopment; and (c) if so, whether alternative sports facilities will be built at other locations to replace any lost facilities at Farrer Park.
Mr Saktiandi Supaat: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) what are the trends in the inflow and outflow of migrant construction workers as border restrictions ease from late 2021; (b) whether unskilled or workers who are less skilled are replacing the skilled workers in Singapore who are leaving to visit their home in two years, amidst the backlog of construction projects and increasing manpower costs; and (c) if so, how is the Government looking at mitigating an enhanced risk of workplace injuries and fatalities.
Mr Murali Pillai: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) in each of the past five years, what percentage of self-employed persons (SEPs) did not meet their MediSave contribution obligations in full; (b) what is the corresponding dollar value of the shortfall in MediSave contributions by SEPs for each year in the same period; and (c) what steps are being take to enhance the number of SEPs subscribing to the Contribute-As-You-Earn scheme to allow them to make MediSave contributions as they earn.
Ms Hazel Poa: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) whether the Ministry collects data on real wage growth based on different age groups; and (b) if so, what is the real wage increase for each year from 2000 to 2021 for those aged (i) 29 and below (ii) 30 to 39 (iii) 40 to 49 (iv) 50 to 59 and (v) 60 and above respectively.
Mr Desmond Choo: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) what is the current number of workers who are unable to meet their CPF Basic Retirement Sum (BRS); and (b) what is the forecasted number of workers who will not be able to meet the CPF BRS over the next 10 and 20 years respectively.
Mr Saktiandi Supaat: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) what percentage of Singaporean households have claimed their Community Development Council (CDC) vouchers in the recent May 2022 distribution exercise; (b) what is the total value of vouchers redeemed to date; and (c) whether the Government has conducted any studies on the utilisation of the CDC vouchers, so that targeted measures can be designed to benefit specific businesses or segments of Singaporeans.
Mr Gerald Giam Yean Song: To ask the Minister for Culture, Community and Youth (a) what sports facilities will be provided at the proposed housing development cum sports centre site at Farrer Park; (b) whether the total area available for sports facilities in Farrer Park will be reduced from the current area as a result of this redevelopment; and (c) if so, whether alternative sports facilities will be built at other locations to replace any lost facilities at Farrer Park.
Mr Saktiandi Supaat: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) what are the trends in the inflow and outflow of migrant construction workers as border restrictions ease from late 2021; (b) whether unskilled or workers who are less skilled are replacing the skilled workers in Singapore who are leaving to visit their home in two years, amidst the backlog of construction projects and increasing manpower costs; and (c) if so, how is the Government looking at mitigating an enhanced risk of workplace injuries and fatalities.
Mr Murali Pillai: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) in each of the past five years, what percentage of self-employed persons (SEPs) did not meet their MediSave contribution obligations in full; (b) what is the corresponding dollar value of the shortfall in MediSave contributions by SEPs for each year in the same period; and (c) what steps are being take to enhance the number of SEPs subscribing to the Contribute-As-You-Earn scheme to allow them to make MediSave contributions as they earn.
Ms Hazel Poa: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) whether the Ministry collects data on real wage growth based on different age groups; and (b) if so, what is the real wage increase for each year from 2000 to 2021 for those aged (i) 29 and below (ii) 30 to 39 (iii) 40 to 49 (iv) 50 to 59 and (v) 60 and above respectively.
Mr Desmond Choo: To ask the Minister for Manpower (a) what is the current number of workers who are unable to meet their CPF Basic Retirement Sum (BRS); and (b) what is the forecasted number of workers who will not be able to meet the CPF BRS over the next 10 and 20 years respectively.
Mr Yip Hon Weng: To ask the Minister for Manpower in view of falling
from heights cited as the top cause of workplace deaths this year (a) what targeted measures are taken to resolve this problem; (b) whether there will be enhanced penalties for employers if they have worker fatalities in this area; and (c) besides death rates, what other measurables are taken into account in determining the effectiveness of preventive methods for workplace fatalities.
(Government of Singapore)