Article Number: 610
China: Xi Jinping Speaks with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko on the Phone
President Xi Jinping had a phone conversation with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko.
Xi Jinping pointed out that I am glad to talk on the phone with you at the beginning of the new year.
The past year was of great significance to both China and Belarus.
I am ready to maintain close communication with you through various means to push forward the China-Belarus relationship continuously.
Xi Jinping stressed that this year marks the 30th anniversary of the establishment of China-Belarus diplomatic ties.
Over the past 30 years, China-Belarus relations have achieved fruitful results.
The two sides have become comprehensive strategic partners of mutual trust and win-win cooperation.
The Belt and Road cooperation between the two countries has registered steady progress; bilateral trade has increased 50-fold in 30 years; a number of large projects, including the China-Belarus Industrial Park and the China-Europe Railway Express, have taken root and borne fruit; and exchanges have grown deeper in such fields as science and technology, education, culture, tourism and medical care.
The China-Belarus relationship has set a good example of friendly exchanges and mutually beneficial cooperation between countries.
China is ready to work with Belarus to take the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties as a new starting point to enhance political mutual trust, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, and push for new results in the China-Belarus comprehensive strategic partnership.
The two sides should expand the scale of bilateral trade, strengthen cooperation in areas such as innovative, green and digital development, and ensure the stable operation and sustainable development of the China-Europe Railway Express.
The two sides should also continuously enhance vaccine cooperation.
Xi Jinping stressed that the current international and regional situation is complex and changeable.
China and Belarus have cooperated effectively on multilateral occasions including the United Nations, and firmly supported each other in safeguarding our core national interests, which has demonstrated the strategic value of China-Belarus cooperation.
Under the new circumstances, the two sides should continue to cooperate closely, practice true multilateralism, safeguard the international system with the United Nations at its core and the international order based on international law, and uphold international fairness and justice.
China opposes external forces interfering in Belarus' internal affairs, and, as always, supports Belarus in pursuing a development path suited to its own national conditions.
The two sides should advocate the common values of humanity, guide the international community to adopt a correct approach to democracy and human rights, and promote the implementation of the Global Development Initiative and the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Lukashenko once again congratulated the Communist Party of China on its 100th birthday.
Lukashenko said, the Belarusian people have always had sincere and friendly feelings towards the Chinese people.
He thanked China for its firm political and moral support to Belarus.
Facing the profound and complex changes in the international and regional situation, Belarus hopes to maintain close communication and coordination with China.
Belarus is willing to take the 30th anniversary of the establishment of Belarus-China diplomatic ties this year as an opportunity to elevate bilateral relations to a new level and hopes to work with China to develop the China-Belarus Industrial Park and deepen cooperation in pandemic response and traditional Chinese medicine as well as trade, investment and education.
Belarus will always be a firm cooperative partner of China.
He wishes the Chinese people a happy Spring Festival!
(Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China)