Article Number: 120
Esther, Future Fair and NADA New York Reviews: Gem Hunting; New York Art Week's many fairs often fell flat, but with so much art on view it was still possible to find exciting works among the noise.
Kelly, Brian P.
While Frieze might be the centerpiece of New York Art Week, numerous other gallery openings, talks, performances and alternative fairs offer art lovers plenty of chances to find something to connect with.
Unfortunately, the easiest way to sum up this year's fairs is: inert.
It's not that the work on view is bad, just that much of it fails to thrill.
Nevertheless, with so much work on view across the city, there is still excitement to be discovered, even if it takes a little searching.
On the east side of Manhattan, at the Estonian House, a 19th-century Beaux Arts townhouse, Esther is a new presentation that upends our usual notions about what art fairs are.
Spread across three floors, it eschews the brightly lighted white cubes ubiquitous at such gatherings; gallery representatives are few and far between; elitist hob-nobbing and back-slapping are in short supply.
It's an intimate presentation with just 26 exhibitors, and the inviting layout makes the whole thing feel more like taking a tour of an aesthete's home than going to a sales convention.
It's a welcome break from the norm that doesn't always work.
Tamo Jugeli's large canvases, shown by Gallery Artbeat, feature softly expressive dogs and calming pastel colors, enlivened by brightly hued patches of squares that call to mind Stanley Whitney.
But being displayed in a low-ceilinged basement whose dreariness is a stark departure from the upper floors makes the cheery paintings feel claustrophobic.
Similarly, pieces in the building's cafe make for awkward viewing when you have to lean across someone sipping a coffee.
But when the displays work, they work well.
In the billiards room, playful ceramics that deploy imagery from cartoons, Americana and Japanese erotica are scattered across the felt and tucked into a fireplace.
These creations by duo Skuja Braden, shown by kaufmann repetto, embody a tongue-in-cheek elegance that's a perfect fit for the space.
The Blue Room, with its vibrant walls, features a soulful portrait from Bony Ramirez—less in-your-face than some of his other works that deal with colonization and his Dominican upbringing, but still moving—and a captivating video by Oliver Herring of performers rolling over gravel, splashing themselves with glitter and paint, and slowly grappling.
(Both artists are shown by BANK Gallery.)
While not without faults, Esther refreshes the art-fair model.
In Chelsea, Future Fair has quickly become a favorite stop during New York Art Week, with small and midsize galleries exhibiting exciting new voices.
It's disappointing, then, that this year's presentation, comprising some 60 galleries, is a largely staid affair that does little to distinguish itself from the other events competing for visitors.
Even so, there were a few gems
Two series explored the way artists can infinitely reinvent the same subject.
Jeff Bliumi's paintings of Uber drivers, shown by Opening Gallery, brought a sense of humanity to those performing the often thankless job.
His view from the back seat morphs from canvas to canvas, revealing how drivers' vehicles are often a second home of sorts, with little details—frequently religious objects—shedding light on their identities and the way they make the mass-manufactured interiors of cars more personal.
In Galleri Urbane's space, Drea Cofield's "Send N*des" series updates a classical subject for the 21st century.
Soliciting images on OnlyFans, Ms. Cofield duplicates the naked selfies she received in oils.
Some, as expected, are erotic and exhibitionistic, yet others are reserved, sensual but not sexy—bodies are reflected in mirrors and windows, hidden behind textiles, or only hinted at through shadows.
At Mama Projects, Mia Weiner's hand-woven tapestries also explored the body, focusing on touch and connection, with their highly realistic, headless figures—created via a process of photographing, digital image editing, and detailed plotting before she weaves—reclining on one another, linking arms or caressing knees.
And Lorena Lohr's paintings at Soho Revue's booth playfully mashed up pinup girls with cowboy-western influences and art-historical arrangements.
While these artists focused on the human form, Karen Seapker's paintings tackle nature, specifically the garden she tends outside her home in Nashville.
The surrealist works, bursting with color, also allude to classical myth and artists like Derek Jarman, an avant-garde filmmaker who was also himself a gardener.
The sweeping, interlocking stems of "Low Five" bring to mind stained glass windows and Joseph Stella's 1939 painting of the Brooklyn Bridge; "Sisyphus With Seedling" is weighty but not mopey, a reminder of rebirth in the face of hardship.
Her pieces are certainly one of the highlights of New York Art Week.
Also in Chelsea, NADA brought together nearly 100 exhibitors for the 10th edition of its New York fair.
The work here was largely competent, but even with the expansive roster one had to hunt for true standouts.
Marigold Santos, at Patel Brown, proved to be one.
I've written about Ms. Santos and her work before so was pleased to see that her practice continues to evolve.
The paintings here—still tapping into Filipino folklore and deploying the shapeshifting aswang figure—are less aggressive than her previous work, more refined, and more connected to feminist notions of self-presentation.
Also notable among the paintings on view are the works by Pardiss Amerian and Kirsty Budge.
Ms. Amerian's pieces, shown by Zalucky Contemporary and inspired by Persian manuscripts dating back to the 16th century, are quiet, semi-abstract works with calming hues—lavender, teal, daffodil—that read like dreamlike places and scenarios: A gangway sinks out of frame, consumed by a roiling plane of periwinkle; a figure holds up a soaring geometric structure.
Ms. Budge, presented by Daine Singer, lets her underpainting show through in incredibly layered works whose lush, sensuous forms transform into animals, people and strange creatures that look like they've wandered in from a medieval illuminated manuscript, peering through frames in the canvas or peeking around corners with voyeuristic gazes.
In three dimensions, Wen Liu's wall sculptures, exhibited by Dinner Gallery, explore traditional Chinese medicine, with some of its natural remedies embedded in resin that punctuates modeled clay.
That material's shapes suggest ornate frames and anatomical models, a nod to both the artist's heritage and her health struggles.
And Mariana Varela's dioramas at Casa Zirio's booth are both enchanting and heavy, telling the story of Colombia's often troubled history but never being depressed by it.
In the most grabbing example, clay hippos laze in a river as a boat drifts by in the background—a reference to the animals kept by Pablo Escobar that escaped after his death and have since thrived and multiplied, now often being spotted around the Magdalena River.
Though the fairs as a whole may have been disappointing this year, works like these show that, like tracking an exotic creature through the jungle, the effort of the hunt is well worth it.
Esther
Estonian House, through May 4
Future Fair
Chelsea Industrial, through May 4
NADA New York
West, through May 5
Mr. Kelly is the Journal's associate Arts in Review editor.
Follow him on X @bpkelly89 and write to him at brian.kelly@wsj.com.
Credit: By Brian P. Kelly