Article Number: 119
I was born and raised in Greece.
These are the 11 best luxury resorts in the country that are actually worth the money.
Fani Mari.
- I'm from Athens, Greece, and I travel around the islands all the time staying at luxury resorts.
- Some of my favorite spots in Crete are Stella Island Resort and ACRO Suites.
- Sani is the best family-friendly resort, and Euphoria Retreat in Mystras is great for relaxing.
Traveling in Greece is always an adventure — even for a local like me.
Delta Air Lines recently ranked my hometown of Athens on its list of most-searched destinations for this summer, so I know plenty of other visitors are set to hit the islands in a few months.
And if you're looking for luxury, I've found some of the best resorts in the country.
Here are my favorite luxury hotels in Greece, from Athens to Mykonos.
One&Only Aesthesis Resort, Athens
One&Only is a global brand, but the chain's first luxury resort in Greece is located in Glyfada, right by the sea.
It sits next to acres of protected forests that instantly make me feel like I'm on a tropical holiday — without leaving Athens.
The resort's interior design is unparalleled, with clean and unique mid-century details.
It is also home to Greece's first Guerlain spa (a French luxury brand).
The spa boasts quiet opulence and offers treatments created specifically for the space.
After exploring the grounds by bike, I like to enjoy a group Pilates class or a quick dip in the pool that overlooks the Athenian Riviera.
Kea Retreat, Kea
Kea, an island close to Athens, is known for its raw, natural beauty.
The island's titular boutique resort is the perfect relaxation spot.
It offers serenity within a secluded, remote bay and even houses its own farm.
Kea also hosts wellness retreats throughout the year with local and international experts.
And the food is exceptional — the fresh dishes always leave me feeling amazing afterward.
The Rooster, Antiparos
Located on the quiet side of Antiparos Island (Paros' little sister), The Rooster highlights the wonderful rawness of its natural environment.
The resort, which sits within hills and sand dunes and overlooks an unspoiled beach, is the perfect spot for a peaceful stay.
Plus, there are only 16 private houses, making it a little more exclusive and special.
Once you've soaked in the sun for the day, the resort's restaurant and bar offer stunning views, great food, and delicious cocktails.
Euphoria Retreat, Mystras
Located in the ancient city of Mystras (a UNESCO-protected area), Euphoria Retreat is a holistic luxury resort that bridges modern and traditional touches.
The pool and spa area are a modern, immersive, multisensory experience.
Everything is so beautiful, I wish I could stay here forever.
The resort offers various outdoor activities and retreat programs based on traditional Chinese medicine and Greek techniques designed to help people reconnect with their bodies.
Cavo Tagoo, Mykonos
A resort guide to Greece would never be complete without a spot in Mykonos, and I think Cavo Tagoo is the best hotel on the island.
From the luxurious cave suites and sun-deck infinity pool to the restaurant and bar overlooking the Aegean Sea, the resort has a bit of everything.
Cavo Tagoo even offers bespoke experiences through its in-house concierge.
In typical Cyclades' style, everything is white or blue, finished with crisp linen and natural wood furnishings.
I recommend enjoying a sunset dinner at Meraki (a luxurious, modern take on Greek and Mediterranean cuisine) with mezze dishes and fresh fish.
Stella Island Resort, Heraklion, Crete
Stella Island is an adults-only resort that's great for solo women, couples, or honeymooners.
The resort's luxurious design features dark wood and bright whites, which contrast nicely with the natural blues and greens of the surrounding landscape.
Its rooms resemble the floating bungalows popular in the Maldives.
Guests can relax in the seemingly endless lagoon pools and get a massage at the Anassa Spa.
ACRO Suites, Agia Pelagia, Crete
Stone villas emerge from the cliffs' staggering edge at the luxurious and modern ACRO Suites Resort.
The elegance is evident throughout the resort, which is decorated in natural grays, browns, and whites.
The landscape, right on the edge of the sea, is also impressive and unique.
I like to immerse myself in hiking, yoga, and cultural activities during my stay.
Crete is known for its excellent food, and the resort's restaurants are no exception.
They boast organic and fresh ingredients from the island and are not to be missed.
Lesante Cape, Zakynthos
In addition to its wonderful scenery, Lesante Cape has traditional but modern architecture, earthy tones, and stone buildings.
The resort is built like a traditional Greek village, with a taverna and a museum for socializing.
The food is also a memorable experience.
There are 10 restaurants and bars serving proper Greek cuisine (using local ingredients, some from its own gardens) in a fine-dining setting.
Finally, the spa is a calming oasis and a must-visit for a treatment.
Sani Resort, Kassandra, Halkidiki
Sani, a family-friendly resort in northern Greece, is known for its luxurious setting and excellent gastronomic experiences.
The five-hotel property is located within a pine forest, creating a beautiful escape.
The activity options here are endless, with dozens of restaurants, 13 bars, five spas, and many sports facilities.
It also has seven beautiful beaches, several pools, and plenty of hiking or walking trails.
If you're traveling with young ones, kids under 12 can stay for free.
Plus, Sani offers a complimentary kids' club for guests ages 4 to 12 and a teens' club for anyone 12 to 17.
Milos Cove, Milos
In Milos — the birthplace of Aphrodite in Greek mythology and one of my personal favorite islands — I stay at Milos Cove.
The resort is a hidden gem, with architecture and decor inspired by the island's natural geology.
It's a luxurious and relaxing space, complete with a beautiful spa, large pools at the edge of the cliff, and a private beach.
Amanzoe, Porto Heli
Amanzoe Resort is located within UNESCO-protected ruins in the beautiful Peloponnese region.
I love taking in the endless views of the Aegean Sea and olive trees, swimming at the resort's private beach club, and riding a speedboat to the neighboring Spetses Island.