Article Number: 623
Plaque of Pak-China Joint Research Centre unveiled
Prof. Dr. Atta-urRahman, Chairman of Prime Minister's Task Force on Science and Technology, has said that the establishment of 'Pakistan-China Joint Research Center for Nutrition and Health' in the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi is really valuable that will open new vistas for researchers to have new discoveries in the field of Nutrition and Health, says a Press release.
A silent revolution in education is taking place in Pakistan, as the landscape of higher education, science, and technology are presently undergoing a major positive change.
He was speaking in the joint opening ceremony (online) of the 'Pakistan-China Joint Research Center for Nutrition and Health' held at the H.E.J.
Research Institute of Chemistry, University of Karachi, recently.
Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman and Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary, Director of the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences, and COMSTECH Coordinator General, jointly unveiled the plaque of the joint research center in the ceremony.
It is pertinent to mention here that the Chinese officials also unveiled the plaque of the joint center in the Institute of Food Science and Technology, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS), China, at the same time in the ceremony.
Many Chinese and Pakistani scientists attended the joint online ceremony.
Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman said that as a result of numerous projects undertaken by the technology-driven Knowledge Economy Task Force set up by Prime Minister Imran Khan in early 2019 under his chairmanship, the landscape of higher education, science and technology were presently undergoing a major positive change.
"There has been a huge 600 percent enhancement in the development budget of the Ministry of Science and Technology over the last three years and projects of over Rs100 billion have either been approved or are in the final phase of approval," he informed the ceremony.
Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary emphasized the significance of the bilateral relations between Pakistan and China, and said that the decades of relationship between the two brotherly countries were now translating into institutional collaboration.
The ICCBS as a center for excellence owns an international stature in the field of science and research, he said.
He said that ICCBS, University of Karachi was contributing its role remarkably in the area of research and higher education.
He proposed to compile a Pharmacopeia of medicinal plants used both in TCM and in traditional Unani medicine.
He acknowledged the advice and tremendous support of minister health Dr. Azra Fazal Pehucho in the establishment of the binational center.
He said, "ICCBS was the only institution in Pakistan, which was not only certified by ISO but it also became 'UNESCO Centre for Excellence Category2 Institute'."