Article Number: 207
India/Malaysia: India, Malaysia to expand ties, defense cooperation as Kuala Lumpur tries to move closer to Beijing
India and Malaysia will seek to expand economic ties and strengthen cooperation on defense and security, the leaders of the two countries said on Tuesday.
This came during Malaysian Prime Minster Anwar Ibrahim's visit to India, his first since he took office in 2022, where he met with his Indian counterpart Narendra Modi.
Recently, Anwar has sought to move closer to China, with whom New Delhi has been locked in a long-running border dispute.
A key part of Modi's foreign policy has been to deepen trade and ties with other Asian countries, including Malaysia, to push back against growing Chinese influence in the region.
Both heads of state addressed reporters after signing a slew of new agreements, including digital technologies, tourism and traditional medicine.
Anwar said the two countries have enjoyed good relations for years, adding that we realized this must be strengthened in a multitude of areas, including construction, agriculture and military collaborations to safeguard both nations' borders.
Modi said the two had discussed cooperation in the defense sector, and that trade and investment between the two countries should grow while they collaborate on new industries like the production of semiconductors.
He also stressed how the partnership between the two countries had grown, taking on new momentum and energy" over the years.
Earlier on Tuesday, the Malaysian prime minister received a ceremonial welcome at India's presidential palace Rashtrapati Bhavan before paying his respects to Indian independence leader Mahatma Gandhi at the Rajghat memorial site in New Delhi.
Bilateral trade between the two countries is strong at $20 billion.
Malaysia is India's 16th largest trading partner, while India is among the top ten largest trading partners for Malaysia.
There are around 70 Malaysian companies operating in India and more than 150 Indian ones in Malaysia, where Indians comprise about 7% of the country's population.
- VOA
Cooperation