Article Number: 147
Karachi Univ Professor wins 37th Khwarizmi International Award
Prof. Dr. Raza Shah, the Senior Professor at the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), the University of Karachi, has won the 37th Khwarizmi International Award (KIA) in Biological and Chemical Sciences.
Prof. Raza Shah will attend the 37th KIA Award Ceremony at the end of February in Tehran, where the Pakistani scientist will be awarded the trophy, certificate, and cash prize of 20,000 USD by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran.
The award is given to the most prominent scientists in the world and is considered to be a highly prestigious award in the world in general and Iran in particular.
The ICCBS, University of Karachi Director, Prof. Dr. Farzana Shaheen congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his great achievement.
According to the spokesman of the ICCBS, University of Karachi, the awards have been announced by the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology, Iranian Research Organization for Science and Technology to recognize the valuable achievements of the researchers, innovators, and inventors in the field of Science and Technology.
It is worth mentioning here that the Khwarizmi International Award is named in memory of the achievements of Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi, the Iranian mathematician and astronomer.
According to the ICCBS Spokesman, Prof. Shah, working in the area of Nanomedicine and Supramolecular Chemistry, has authored six books (Elsevier) and also edited four books (Elsevier), along with 12 chapters in books and more than 460 research articles in international journals with impact factor more than 1700 with Hindex 50.
He has three US patents to his credit.
He has supervised and co-supervised 35 Ph.Ds.
and 44 M.S/M.Phil scholars.
He was declared the top scientist for the year 2019 by the government of KPK.
He received the Civil Award of Tamgha-i-Imtiaz in 2015.
He received the Dr. Atta-ur-Rahman gold medal in 2006 and the Dr. Raziuddin gold medal in 2015 from the Pakistan Academy of Sciences.
He received the Dr. Abdus Salam (Nobel Laureate) award in chemistry.
One of his authored books was declared the best book of the year 2017 by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan.
He is a fellow of various national and international academies and organizations.
He led the vaccine (COVID-19) phase-1 clinical trial of Sinopharm Company in Pakistan.
He led the DRAP-approved clinical trial for treating COVID-19 patients with traditional Chinese medicines.
The Vice Chancellor of the University of Karachi, Prof. Dr. Khalid Mehmood Iraqi, Prof. Dr. Atta-ur Rahman, Professor Emeritus and former Federal Minister for Science and Technology, and Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary, the Coordinator-General OIC-COMSTECH, and UNESCO CHAIR on Medicinal and Bio-Organic Natural Product Chemistry ICCBS, also congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his achievement.