Article Number: 609
China: Xi Jinping Speaks with Maltese President George Vella on the Phone
President Xi Jinping had a phone conversation with Maltese President George Vella.
The two heads of state exchanged New Year greetings.
Xi Jinping pointed out, China and Malta are old and good friends that have withstood the test of time.
Half a century ago, the elder generation of Chinese and Maltese leaders, with great vision and foresight, jointly forged friendly relations between China and Malta.
Over the past 50 years, no matter how the international situation changes, China-Malta relations have been developing in a sound and steady manner, with deepening friendship and fruitful cooperation in various fields.
In the face of challenges such as the international financial crisis and the COVID-19 pandemic, the two sides have always helped and supported each other.
China-Malta relations have set a good example of relations between countries of different sizes, social systems, histories and cultures.
Xi Jinping stressed, China and Malta will soon celebrate the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties.
China is ready to work with Malta to push for greater development of bilateral relations.
The two sides should uphold mutual respect and mutual trust, continue to respect and support each other's choice of development path, and maintain communication and coordination on issues of each other's concern.
We should deepen practical cooperation, advance Belt and Road cooperation, and expand cooperation in key areas such as economy, trade, investment, medical and health care, clean energy, transportation and logistics.
We should step up cultural exchanges and cooperation in traditional Chinese medicine, expand exchanges and cooperation in areas such as education, youth and tourism, and foster more new forces for China-Malta friendship.
Malta has always been a positive force in advancing China-EU relations.
China is ready to work with Malta to uphold the general direction of China-EU cooperation and promote the sound and steady development of China-EU relations.
Xi Jinping stressed, China will host the Beijing Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games next month, and currently, preparations are basically all set.
With the support of the international community, China will host a streamlined, safe and splendid Winter Olympics, carry forward the Olympic spirit and encourage all countries to work together for the future.
China is ready to work with Malta and other members of the international community to practice true multilateralism and jointly promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind.
Vella said, I'm glad to have a phone conversation with Mr. President as our two countries are set to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties.
I fully agree with your positive comments on Malta-China relations and your views on the development of bilateral relations.
Since the establishment of diplomatic ties between Malta and China, bilateral cooperation has been fruitful and bilateral friendship has withstood the tests of the COVID-19 pandemic and other challenges.
Bilateral relations have become more mature and made remarkable achievements, setting a good example of state-to-state relations.
Malta is firmly committed to further developing its friendly relations with China and is ready to strengthen high-level exchanges and deepen practical cooperation with China in various fields.
Malta cherishes the precious opportunities brought by Belt and Road cooperation and is ready to continue to advance relevant cooperation with China.
I hope that Malta-China relations will develop even better in the next 50 years and bring more benefits to the two peoples.
Malta firmly adheres to the one-China principle and firmly supports multilateralism.
Malta is ready to play a positive role in promoting the development of EU-China relations.
Malta highly appreciates China's vaccine aid for the international community's fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and its positive contribution to the global response to climate change, and looks forward to closer cooperation with China.
I wish the Beijing Olympic Winter Games a success!
(Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China)