Article Number: 32
Why it might be a good idea to use the Chinese footbath for a better night’s sleep
Zhang, Xuena.
The importance of feet in Chinese medicine and detoxification Dubai: One of my 90-year-old Chinese grandpa's favourite things to do is to soak his feet in warm water before going to bed.
He would often make a relaxation sound and doze off shortly after that.
He's been doing this ever since he was young.
My grandpa is not the only one in my family who likes to take a footbath before bed.
For many Chinese, footbath is a habit.
'Growing a tree begins with taking care of its root'
There is a saying in Chinese medicine, 'Growing a tree begins with taking care of its root.
Maintaining good health starts with one's feet.'
Xin Liu, a Chinese medicine doctor living in Dubai, spoke to Gulf News regarding the importance of feet in Chinese medicine.
"Traditional Chinese medicine believes that the soles of our feet have reflex areas corresponding to various organs and tissues of the body.
Massaging and stimulating the reflex zones of the feet can help in regulating and improving the function of related organs.
"Meanwhile, the meridians and acupoints of the human body meet at the feet to form a complete system.
Stimulations on specific points on the feet can unblock the meridians, regulate the flow of Qi and blood, and enhance the health and balance of the body.
"In addition, there are sweat glands on the soles of our feet.
A warm footbath facilitates sweating through these glands, which contributes to detoxification to some degree."
What are acupoints, Qi and meridians?
In acupuncture and Chinese medicine, acupoints are any of the supposed energy points on the body where acupuncture needles are inserted or manual pressure is applied during acupressure.
A meridian means each of a set of pathways in the body along which vital energy is said to flow.
In Chinese philosophy, qi, is the life force that every person and thing has - it stands for the energy in everything.
Chinese medicine and acupuncture both address the concept.