Article Number: 517
Make time for health-giving activities
It's a day late but I'm sure there are some of you who have yet to take your moms out on a Mother's Day date or are just about to get something for her for the occasion.
Everyone's been busy campaigning, finalizing their list of candidates to vote for, and actually going to the precincts to vote.
After fulfilling our nationalistic duty, it might be the perfect time to spend time with our moms or to treat yourself, if you are a mom who needs some me time.
I recently received a special announcement from Novotel Manila about their Mother's Day offerings, which are all valid for the whole month of May.
They have a Mother's Day Special Room offer for two adults and two children 15 years old and younger for just P6,000 nett/night, including breakfast at Food Exchange Manila.
Another offer is their Sunday brunch buffet for P2,488/person also at Food Exchange Manila.
Finally, InBalance Spa has a spa-cation offering for moms at P5,888, which includes the use of the pool and steam room, followed by their signature scrub, a 60-minute aromatherapy massage, and facial treatment.
The offer also includes dining credits worth P1,200 at The 6th Manila.
Novotel Manila is in Cubao, Quezon City.
**** One of the positive things to come out of the pandemic is the proliferation of webinars, which are usually free of charge.
We can now access exclusive information without having to leave the house or pay for anything.
If you are concerned about your or your loved ones' health (who wouldn't be?
), then you might find this series of webinars worth your time.
SMIC-ITCM (Institute of Traditional Chinese Medicine Inc.) in the Philippines is organizing a series of free webinars on health awareness.
These are open to the public and will be conducted by professional and certified experts on the respective topics.
To register, all you have to do is send your name, age, e-mail address, location, and contact number to smicitcmphilippines@gmail.com On May 21 from 2:00 to 3:00 p.m., the topic is 'Sluggish, tired?
TCM helps you regain your energy' to be conducted by Berenice Limark-Yu, MD, CAMA.
Marika Biag, MD, CAMA will talk about the 'Effect of the emotions on one's health' on June 4 (same time).
On June 18, Clara Ysabelle Domingo, MD, CAMA will be discussing 'Office workers: Neck pain, back pain self-management' and Kathryn Lopez, IND.
ENG., CAA will talk about 'Cold hands and feet?
How TCM can help you' on July 2.
Topics have been lined up for July 16, August 6 and 20, September 3 and 17, October 18 and 22, November 5 and 19, December 3 and 17, January 7 and 21, 2003, and February 4 and 18, 2023.
Please check out SMIC-ITCM's Facebook page for details-facebook.com/SMICTCM.
Chinese medicine
Philippines
Make time for health-giving activities