Article Number: 463
China: City of Sanya presents its products at Hainan Expo
The Chinese resort city of Sanya presented its signature products at the Hainan Province stand at the 22nd China International Consumer Products Expo in Haikou, a TASS correspondent reported.
The Hainan booth is located in the seventh hall with its total area reaching 610 square meters.
he stand was divided into six thematic zones: yachts and electric cars, aloe and rosewood, tourist goods, products, medicine and education.
Sanya Resort presented the Qianjiao P200 Pro underwater drone.
The device is capable of moving in any direction, with a maximum speed of three knots.
The drone has a radius of use of 400 meters, and is capable of descending to a depth of 200 meters.
It can be used for research purposes, to carry out surveillance of the water area, search for objects on the seabed, as well as perform other tasks.
Visitors were also able to see traditional handmade pearl jewelry from the Li and Miao peoples.
Some of them take three to four weeks of intricate work to make.
In addition to pearls, they use seashells, enamel and agates.
They are now sold in Hong Kong, Macau, Taiwan, as well as Southeast Asia, Europe, and the United States.
The yellow pitaya, also known as dragon fruit, was especially popular with the guests of the booth.
It began growing in Sanya in 2019, and in recent years it has become another trademark of the resort.
The resort also showcased several traditional Chinese medicine products.
About the Expo
The 2nd China International Consumer Products Expo will be held from July 25 to 30 and will feature over 2,800 brands from more than 60 countries and regions around the world.
The exhibition is expected to receive more than 40 thousand representatives of business.
France is the guest of honor at this year's event.
The opening ceremony marked the start of the Expo's business program.
The exhibition itself starts on Tuesday: from July 26 to 28 the exhibition will be open only for the business community and mass media, and on July 29-30 it will open its doors for the general public.