Article Number: 478
Indonesia: Glodok Chinatown offers storynomics tourism steeped in history
Glodok Chinatown Tourism Village in West Jakarta offers storynomics tourism that holds potential for cultural and historical tourism attractions, Minister of Tourism and Creative Economy Sandiaga Uno stated.
"We have seen various dance performances from Betawi (culture), Wushu, and others.
This village has storynomics, which are stories that will be able to attract tourists," he noted here on Monday.
Storynomics is a tourism approach that prioritizes narrative, creative content and living culture as well as taps into the power of culture as the essence of the destination to build tourists' interpretation and imagination.
According to Uno, Glodok Chinatown has an acculturation of Chinese, Sundanese, Betawi, and Javanese cultures.
The Glodok Chinatown Tourism Village is also listed in the top 50 at the 2022 Indonesian Tourism Village Awards (ADWI), he stated.
The village has buildings with unique Chinese architecture and ornaments, including the Pancoran Chinatown Point, classic-elegant residential buildings combined with commercial areas, with a city walk and thematic malls.
The other places of interest include the Gloria Alley, one of the hawker centers in the Pancoran-Glodok area, and Petak Enam in Chandra Building, with its Chinese-nuanced designs, such as red lantern decorations and Chinese ornaments.
In terms of art and celebration, the Glodok Chinatown Tourism Village offers tanjidor, ondel-ondel, silat beksi, barongsai, and Cap Go Meh.
Some heritage buildings, such as Candra Naya and Toasebio Temple, are also located in the area.
In addition, Uno visited the Toasebio Temple to witness first-hand a medical ritual performed by tang sin, a human medium for deities.
The spiritual remedy is usually performed on Cap Go Meh, or the 15th night after the first day of Lunar New Year.
The minister also performed the ritual of fang sen or releasing 53 birds.
On the same occasion, Uno opened the Glodok Chinatown Festival that featured various attractions and performances, such as silat, barongsai, kung fu, Betawi dance, and traditional herbal medicine (jamu)-making techniques.
"In Petak Enam, I opened the Glodok Chinatown Festival.
Please, enjoy this wonderful show," he stated.