Article Number: 295
India to host SCO virtual Summit tomorrow; Chinese President Xi Jinping, Pakistan PM Shehbaz Sharif among the attendees
New Delhi, July 3 -- India on Tuesday will host the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) summit in a virtual format, in which Chinese President Xi Jinping and Pakistan prime minister Shehbaz Sharif are on the list of invitees.
The SCO Council of Heads of State will be chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually.
The other SCO member states that have been invited by India are Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan.
In addition, Iran, Belarus, and Mongolia have been invited as Observer States to the 23rd Meeting of the SCO Council.
As per the SCO tradition, Turkmenistan has also been invited as the guest of the Chair.
Heads of the two SCO Bodies -- the Secretariat and the SCO RATS -- will also be present.
Further, heads of six international and regional organisations -- UN, ASEAN, CIS, CSTO, EAEU, and CICA -- have also been invited to the summit.
The theme of the Summit is 'Towards a SECURE SCO'.
The SECURE acronym was coined by the Prime Minister at the 2018 SCO Qingadao Summit and stands for Security; Economy and Trade; Connectivity; Unity; Respect for Sovereignty and Territorial Integrity; and Environment.
India joined the SCO in 2005 and became a full member of the group at the Astana Summit in 2017.
In the last six years, India has taken an active and positive role in all SCO operations.
At the SCO Summit in Samarkand in September 2022, India took over the chairmanship of the SCO for the first time from Uzbekistan.
India created five new pillars and focus areas of cooperation in SCO -- Startups and Innovation, Traditional Medicine, Digital Inclusion, Youth Empowerment, and Shared Buddhist Heritage.
Two new mechanisms in SCO -- Special Working Group on Startups and Innovation and Experts Working Group on Traditional Medicine -- were created at India's initiative.
During India's presidency of the SCO, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar virtually opened New Delhi Hall in the SCO Secretariat in Beijing.
To commemorate India's first SCO presidency, a commemorative stamp was issued.
On May 4-5 this year, India also hosted the Foreign Ministers of SCO in Goa, this was marked by a colourful cultural program and substantive discussions the following day.
Goa showcased its warm hospitality, unique culture, and distinct heritage.
Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning said Beijing stands ready to work with other members to build an even closer SCO community with a shared future.
"As a founding member, China views the SCO as a priority in its foreign affairs.
We stand ready to work with other members to act on the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilization Initiative, build an even closer SCO community with a shared future and usher in a brighter future for the Eurasian continent," Ning said.
Pakistan Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif is set to participate in the 23rd Meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of State (CHS).
"The Prime Minister's participation in the CHS illustrates the high importance that Pakistan attaches to the SCO, as an important forum for regional security and prosperity, and enhanced engagement with the region," the official release of Pakistan Foreign Ministry read.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT.