Article Number: 433
China: Wang Yi Meets with Maltese Minister for Foreign and European Affairs and Trade Ian Borg
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Maltese Minister for Foreign and European Affairs and Trade Ian Borg on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
Wang Yi said, this year marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Malta.
Bilateral relations have maintained sound and steady development, and this comes as a result of an always mutual respect and equal treatment of each other, and accommodation of each other's core concerns, and understanding of the path and development model chosen by each other.
The solid mutual trust built between the two countries has provided an important political guarantee for bilateral relations.
The Chinese side stays committed to treating all countries, big or small, as equals, and supports the Maltese side in advancing national governance and economic and social development in light of its national conditions.
The Chinese side appreciates the Maltese side for its firm commitment to the one-China policy, abiding by the political commitment on the establishment of diplomatic relations, viewing China's development in a positive and friendly way, and upholding an objective and just attitude on issues related to China.
The Chinese side stands ready to work with the Maltese side to expand mutually beneficial cooperation across the board, and continuously elevate the China-Malta relationship to new highs.
Wang Yi congratulated Malta on acting soon as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council for the 2023-2024 term.
He expressed, Malta is a responsible member of the international community and a stabilizing factor in the European Union (EU).
The Chinese side stands ready to work with the Maltese side to strengthen coordination and cooperation in multilateral affairs.
Borg first wishes the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China a complete success.
He said that Malta firmly pursues the one-China policy, and believes that Taiwan is part of China.
The Malta-China relationship is not a temporary fix.
The two sides have always understood each other, and supported the development path chosen by each other.
Over the past 50 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, exchanges and cooperation between Malta and China in various fields have made remarkable headway.
The Maltese side supports and stands ready to participate in the Belt and Road cooperation, and expects to take the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations as an opportunity to push the Malta-China relations for greater development.
As a positive force in the EU, Malta is committed to advancing cooperation between the EU and China.
Malta and China hold similar positions on quite a number of issues, both standing for equality and win-win outcomes and opposing double standards.
Malta expects to strengthen cooperation between both sides within the framework of the UN Security Council, and jointly respond to global challenges in fields of climate change, security and others.
Borg spoke highly of positive results made in cultural and people-to-people exchanges between the two countries.
Wang Yi said, just days ago, President Xi Jinping replied a letter from teachers and students of the "China Corner" at St. Margaret College Secondary School in Malta.
He encouraged more Maltese teachers, students and other young people to actively participate in cultural and people-to-people exchanges between China and Malta, so as to promote mutual learning of civilizations and carry forward the friendship between the two peoples.
The Chinese side stands ready to work with the Maltese side to expand exchanges and cooperation in culture, education, traditional Chinese medicine, sports and other fields, to strengthen the public support for the friendship between the two countries.