Article Number: 297
Kazakhstan takes over SCO Presidency from India after next week's Summit [World News]
Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury.
India's close partner in Central Asia, Kazakhstan is preparing to take over the chairmanship of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) following the Summit under Indian Presidency on July 4.
Kazakhstan is expected to take forward outcomes from the July 4 Summit.
Kazakhstan's chairmanship will last until July 2024 and will end with a summit in Astana, where the heads of the SCO member states will adopt a package of documents that will be developed during expert and ministerial meetings.
Kazakhstan's chairmanship will cover issues of security, economy and trade, energy and healthcare, ecology and education.
Almaty will become the tourist and cultural capital of the SCO, where several events are planned.
Kazakhstan, like India, intends to strengthen cooperation in the fight against terrorism, extremism and separatism.
India has proposed four joint statements, on cooperation on de-radicalisation strategies, promotion of millets and sustainable lifestyles to address climate change and digital transformation, to be adopted at the SCO leaders summit later this year.
This is an attempt by India to leverage the SCO platform to push its priorities on the agenda.
India has millennia-old civilizational, cultural and spiritual ties with the SCO region.
From the Buddhist monks to spice traders, from adventurous explorers to Sufi saints, interaction between India and the SCO Member States has led to exchange of goods, fusion of ideas, introduction of new cuisines and art-forms.
India's membership of SCO in 2017, was therefore, a reaffirmation of India's keenness to deepen its historic ties with the region.
India has maintained an active engagement with the organization since it became a full-fledged Member State in 2017.
In 2020, India hosted for the first time , the meeting of SCO Council of Heads of Government, the second-highest decision-making body of the organization.
India has carved a niche for itself by emphasizing on three new pillars of cooperation in SCO - Startups & Innovation, Science & Technology and Traditional Medicine.
India has implemented the Prime Minister's announcements made at the Bishkek Summit of the SCO Heads of State in 2019 that were aimed to bring into sharper focus our millennia-old shared civilizational heritage.
They include: hosting the first-ever SCO Digital Exhibition on Shared Buddhist Heritage by the National Museum, and the translation of 10 classics of Indian regional literature into Russian and Chinese languages.
India organized the first-ever SCO Young Scientists Conclave, the first-ever Consortium of SCO Economic Think Tanks and the first-ever SCO Startup Forum (in virtual-format).
In the B2B format, FICCI convened the SCO Business Conclave with special emphasis on Cooperation between MSMEs of SCO region through the national chapters of the SCO Business Council.
India hopes to further strengthen greater trade, economic and cultural cooperation within SCO by putting human beings at the center of SCO activities and to foster greater peace and prosperity in the region.
Cooperation