Article Number: 95
Folk medical practice helps researchers find new drugs
DAVAO CITY-Traditional, or folk medical practices, including their array of herbs and concoctions, have contributed vastly to the discovery of new drugs, including the current interest on a plant with vast anti-cancer potential, an international biotechnology service center said.
'Historical data shows that plant-based traditional medicines have helped modern researchers find leads for new drug discovery,' the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications(ISAAA) said in its recent weekly issue of the Biotech Update online publication released this week.
This was the case of the recent interest of an international collaboration of researchers on the plant called skullcap (Scutellaria barbata), which has been the common plant used in Chinese traditional medicine to treat indications similar to cancer symptoms.
In a February 15 writeup of Biotech Update, it said skullcap's microevolutionary history was the key to the dedicated research on the anti-cancer potential of the plant, and 'led to sequencing of skullcap plant's genome.'
'It helped identify how the plant produces a compound called scutebarbatine A that is known to act against a range of cancer cells,' the research said.
Skullcap was more commonly known in China as banzhilian, it added.
'It is used for the treatment of different medical conditions in traditional Chinese medicine [TCM].'
'TCM practitioners would boil the plant for two hours and dry the extract to produce a powder that has its isolated medicinal chemistry.
The powder is given to patients to be taken as a decoction,' it said.
The Biotech Update story said 'previous clinical work showed that preparations based on the skullcap plant during chemotherapy could reduce the risk of metastatic tumors in patients.'
The story said the international collaboration of researchers were fielded by the John Innes Centre and Chinese Academy of Scientists with support from The Royal Society.
'They were able to piece together the plant's genome sequence.
They found that the primary metabolite has activity against cancer cells but not with cancer cells.
This is vital for anti-cancer metabolites in drugs,' it said.
The researchers said that the discovery could help develop a sustainable and quicker method to synthesize larger quantities of the anti-cancer compound using yeast, it added.
The Biotech Update story said the anti-cancer drugs obtained from TCM 'have higher efficacy and less toxic side effects than chemical synthetic drugs.'