Article Number: 412
Snake venom smuggled with ‘Made in France’ tag baffles BSF
VARIETY ‘High’ demand.
The venom has a market in India and abroad as it is used in traditional medicines and at rave parties The illegal business worth crores, via India-Bangladesh border, has been picking up pace since 2017
A ‘Made in France’ tag for apparel can give a high to fashion aficionados.
But can a ‘Made in France’ tag for snake venom give a kick to a few in India?
Yes, it seems.
The Border Security Force (BSF) has seized a jar containing 2.14 kg of snake venom, which is valued at Rs.
17 crore in the international market.
Wrapped in a black plastic bag, the crystal jar was hidden in wild grass beneath a culvert at Kalibadi village in Dakshin Dinajpur district of West Bengal leading to the Bangladesh border.
The jar had a tag hanging around it with ‘Cobra SP, Red Dragon, Made in France Code No: 6097’ scribbled on a yellow metal plate.
Similarly, the 61 Battalion of BSF manning the border outpost at Digipara recovered a jar of snake venom from the border area in Dakshin Dinajpur district on September 1 this year.
Vizesh Rana, the Second in Command of North Bengal Frontier Headquarters, BSF, told businessline that the smuggling of snake venom in dry, gelatine and liquid forms has picked up since 2017.
However, he admitted they are still trying to decode what ‘Made in France’ tag means in this illegal trade.
Rave parties
The mystery doesn’t end there.
Rana added: “It was difficult to open the snake venom-filled jar.
So, we handed the jar over to the Forest Department Office at Balurghat.”
Another BSF officer explained there is a market for snake venom in India and abroad as it is used in traditional Indian and Chinese medicine, at rave parties, and as an aphrodisiac.
The Indian Journal of Mental Health also chronicled the growing abuse of snake venom in rave parties for getting high.
A snake bite costs around Rs.
2,500, the journal wrote in an academic article published in 2015.
The milking of snakes to collect huge volumes of venom is another facet of the cross-border smuggling.
Nine cases of recovery of snake venom from 2017 have been recorded in the India-Bangladesh border alone, according to the statistics compiled by the BSF.
BSF data indicates that the seized snake venom, with a maximum of three seizures in 2021, is valued at Rs.
164 crore globally.
After 2018, snake venom jars had not been recovered, and smuggling had also slowed due to the Covid pandemic.
Suspect in custody
According to BSF sources, the Forest Department of the State seized more than 2 kg of snake venom last month, valued at Rs.
30 crore in the international market, and arrested a person on charges for ferrying it.
The BSF had questioned Mohammad Sarafat and he is said to have told the personnel that he was merely a courier and would get Rs.
5,000 to Rs.
10,000 per consignment.
Sarafat disclosed that between 100 and 150 jars were kept in Bangladesh for smuggling into India through the porous West Bengal border.
A BSF source said he could not throw light on the mystery behind the ‘Made in France’ tag, as he had claimed he wasn’t aware of the gang that operates in Bangladesh.
During a forensic examination of a consignment in the past, the venom sample had traces of three snakes — Cobra, Russel Viper and Saw Scale Viper — and was also adulterated with a neutral compound.
India’s premier serpentarium, the Haffkine Institute in Mumbai, has examined the samples of snake venom seized by law enforcement agencies in North East, Usha Padmanabhan, Head of Department of Biochemistry & Cell Biology, told businessline .
As the mystery remains uncracked, perhaps the BSF may seek the help of Border Guards Bangladesh to clear the cloud around ‘Made in France’ snake venom.