Article Number: 209
New Momentum to Act East Policy as Jaishankar, Doval visit SE Asia Simultaneously [Politics]: With Asean not making a headway on Myanmar issue, India finds Bimstec as an appropriate platform to engage with neighbouring country where China has made inroads
Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury.
New Delhi: India has given a new momentum to its Act East Policy under Modi 3.0 with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar visiting Laos for East Asia & Asean meetings and NSA Ajit Doval attending the Bimstec NSA meet in Myanmar and visiting Vietnam simultaneously this week.
These visits took place ahead of the Vietnamese PM's trip to India next week.
The visit has been in the making from last year.
On Thursday, Doval attended the funeral of Vietnam's Communist Party gene- ral secretary in Hanoi and met the country's top leadership also.
In Myanmar, the NSA also engaged with the country's leadership as India decided to beef up channels in the neighbouring country amid Chinese inroads.
In the recent past, Myanmar's foreign minister met Jaishankar twice here.
In Myanmar, the NSA delivered India's national statement at the Bimstec meet.
He spoke on strengthening cooperation in counterterrorism, combating drug trafficking, arms smuggling and organized crime, Bimstec connectivity, holding 2nd Ports Conclave and water security of the Himalayan- river systems.
With Asean not making a headway on the Myanmar issue, India has found Bimstec to be an appropriate platform to engage with the neighbouring country where China has made major inroads.
India will host the Bimstec business summit here early August which will be followed by the PM's trip to Bangkok for Bimstec.
Besides meeting a slew of his counterparts from across SE Asia, including the Chinese foreign minister, Jaishankar addressed the India-Asean meet in the Laos capital on Friday where he referred to the grouping as the "cornerstone" of India's Act East policy and Indo-Pacific vision.
He also highlighted Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 12-point plan for the Asean and East Asia Summit.
"The priority that India attaches to Asean and EAS platforms is evident from PM Modi visiting Jakarta last year on the very eve of our own G20 summit.
He had announ- ced a 12-point plan that has been largely acted upon.
For India, Asean is the cornerstone of its Act East Policy and the Indo-Pacific vision that was thereafter built on it," said Jaishankar in his remarks.
"For us, political, economic and security cooperation with Asean is of the utmost priority.
So too are people-to-people linkages that we are constantly seeking to expand.
It is encouraging to note that our partnership acquires ever more dimensions with each passing year.
While our achievements are substantial, our ambitions must always remain high," he added.
Taking to X, Jaishankar wrote, "Digital, defence, maritime, connectivity, security, health & traditional medicine and cultural heritage preservation continue to be priority areas for India-Asean cooperation.
Also spoke about the situation in Myanmar, keeping the Sea Lines of Communication open and free, Quad's outlook on Asean & Aoip and the conflict in Gaza."