Article Number: 87
Singapore: Speech by MOS Low Yen Ling at the Official Opening of the Woodleigh Mall
Good morning.
It is my pleasure to be here with you to celebrate the grand opening of The Woodleigh Mall.
Creating common space for social interaction and community engagement
Located in the heart of Bidadari Town, Woodleigh Mall is nestled among the lush green spaces of the Bidadari estate.
In line with the Bidadari master plan of developing the Bidadari estate into a tranquil urban oasis, The Woodleigh Mall has thoughtfully included nature-inspired gathering spaces within the mall, cleverly integrating them with the surrounding green spaces such as the upcoming Bidadari Park and Alkaff Lake.
Residents of the Bidadari estate can look forward to shopping while surrounded by lush greenery, enhancing their shopping experience.
The Woodleigh Mall also enjoys excellent connectivity to Woodleigh MRT station and an extensive network of cycling routes, ensuring seamless access for Bidadari residents.
Beyond the convenience, Woodleigh Mall will be a vibrant hub for social interaction and community engagement, where neighbours and families gather and connect.
Sustainability efforts by The Woodleigh Mall
Besides incorporating nature into the mall's design, I am delighted to learn that sustainability is a key focus in the design and operations of The Woodleigh Mall.
Various sustainability efforts have been incorporated into the mall's design and operations.
Some of them include using Singapore Green Building Council (SGBC) certified green concrete, ceiling boards and materials for construction, and active monitoring of water use and leak detection.
Energy-efficient light fittings with sleep-mode features have also been adopted.
In addition, the mall has made it easier for residents to embrace a green lifestyle by providing 400 bicycle parking lots and handy end-of-trip facilities like lockers and showers.
These facilities will encourage more residents to opt for cycling over driving to the mall.
In recognition of these sustainability efforts, Woodleigh Mall has been awarded the prestigious Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark Platinum Award.
This award is the highest recognition in BCA's assessment for sustainable design, best practices and operations.
I applaud the management and developers for their dedication and congratulate them on getting this well-deserved accolade.
By embracing green initiatives, we are creating a better future for our community and setting an example for others to follow.
Attractive retail offerings and services
The Woodleigh Mall not only champions sustainability but also offers a wide array of shopping, dining, and service retail options for visitors - from food and beverage (F&B) concepts to healthcare and educational services.
a.
For instance, there is FairPrice Finest, a 24-hour supermarket with unique in-store concepts such as The Grocer Café offering freshly baked goods and brewed coffee.
b.
You can also find MindSpace, an after-school care facility that provides a conducive environment to optimise children's learning experiences.
c. In addition, Parkway MediCentre is located in the mall, offering health screening, family medicine, specialist care, and traditional Chinese medicine services.
With such a wide range of options, I am sure visitors will enjoy and make full use of the facilities and services at The Woodleigh Mall.
Conclusion
Woodleigh Mall is well-positioned to become a hub for the Bidadari community and residents in the surrounding areas.
I am confident this place will become an integral part of the Bidadari estate and its continued growth and development.
Congratulations on the official opening of Woodleigh Mall, and kudos to all who have made this possible.
I wish you every success in the years ahead.
Have a great day, and happy shopping!
(Ministry of Trade and Industry Singapore)