Article Number: 399
Dubai Organic Products Expo taps into fertile regional market
A previous edition of the expo The Middle East's biggest trade event for organic and natural products has got under way in Dubai with more than 200 producers and suppliers from nearly 46 countries converging in the UAE.
Held under the patronage of the UAE Ministry of Climate Change and Environment (MOCCAE), the Middle East Organic & Natural Products Expo Dubai 2022 is being held at halls 3 & 4 of Dubai World Trade Centre from December 13 to 15, 2022.
Considered as the only event in the region that focuses on food & beverage, beauty & cosmetics, health & wellness, sustainable living and agriculture & environment sectors, the 20th Middle East Organic & Natural Products Expo Dubai 2022 was inaugurated by Eng Dawoud Abdul Rahman Al-Hajri, Director General of Dubai Municipality.
Organic Majlis The Middle East Organic and Natural Products Expo can be described as the culmination of Organic Majlis Online that connected regional buyers and international sellers in a series of online trade sessions that convened over 20,000 buyers and suppliers through its 12 sessions throughout this year.
The Middle East Organic and Natural Products Expo is also powered by a year-round online platform -- www.arabianorganics.com - that is the go-to portal to source all things organic and natural which has over 32,000 active users.
"We have successfully created a year-round trade eco system through our Online to Offline strategy whereby suppliers and buyers are able to meet and discuss opportunities in real-time and directly source new products from around the world online and finally meet them face to face in Dubai at the Expo," said Shinu Pillai, Exhibition Director of the Middle East Organic and Natural Products Expo.
New country pavilions Along with the return of Greece, Armenia, Iran and Russia, the Expo welcomed new country pavilions from Turkey, Poland, Italy, Burundi, Rwanda, Kenya, India, and Pakistan who are showcasing some of the best products in five main sectors viz.
Food & Beverages, Beauty & Cosmetics, Health & Wellness and Living & Environment.
"Demand for healthy and environmentally friendly products are transforming the industry, which is reflected in the product range that's at the expo from top producers around the world.
Over 15 new and innovative products are set to be launched at the expo that range from world's first new dietary ingredients to plant-based honey and kombucha popsicles to edible cutlery," Pillai added.
This year's event also features live demonstrations and product activations at the specialty features which include the Organic Super Kitchen, Health & Wellness Studio, and the Organic Beauty Lounge.
Major transformation And as the sector is going through major transformation both globally and regionally, the Organic and Natural Conference held alongside the Middle East Organic and Natural Products Expo is convening distributors, retailers, HORECA experts, wholesalers, and exporters to come together and discuss the latest trends, updates on product certifications and labelling, export, and retail strategies and gain first hand insights into the region's organic and natural market and its future.
Another integral part of the event, the two-day Traditional Complementary and Alternative Medicine (TCAM) Conference has a line-up of over 20 speakers and is the only such event for the traditional and alternative medicine sector in the region.
This year's conference theme 'Better Patient Outcomes Through Integrated & Holistic Approach' aims to foster traditional wisdom and healing practices such as Ayurveda, Chinese, Hijama and alternative therapies like Homoeo, Chiro etc.
with modern practices.-- TradeArabia News Service