Article Number: 496
China: Wang Yi - Join Hands to Forge the Next Golden Three Decades of China-Kazakhstan Relations
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Kazakh Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mukhtar Tileuberdi jointly met the press in Nur-Sultan.
Wang Yi said, the two sides have held pragmatic, efficient and content-rich talks, and both sides hold that the China-Kazakhstan friendship dates back to more than a thousand years ago, and the two countries have taken solid steps to advance bilateral cooperation for more than three decades.
Standing at a new historical starting point, the two sides will continue to deepen practical cooperation, carry forward traditional friendship, and forge the next golden three decades of China-Kazakhstan relations in line with the principles of good-neighborliness, mutual respect, equality, mutual trust, mutual benefit and win-win cooperation.
Wang Yi stressed, both sides should stay committed to the following four aspects:
First, stay committed to enhancing strategic mutual trust.
The two sides will give full play to the steering role of the head-of-state diplomacy, and deepen exchanges and cooperation at all levels and among various departments.
We should support each other in pursuing a development path suited to respective national conditions, step up mutual support on issues concerning each other's core interests, and take good care of and properly manage China-Kazakhstan relations to ensure sound development.
We should make full and good use of mechanisms such as the China-Kazakhstan Cooperation Committee, the dialogue on production capacity and investment cooperation, and the China-Kazakhstan Sub-national Cooperation Forum, so as to pursue diversified, in-depth and high-level bilateral cooperation.
Second, stay committed to mutually beneficial cooperation.
The two sides are ready to further synergize our development strategies and explore new areas and space for cooperation.
Utmost efforts will be made to ensure the transport capacity of China-Europe freight trains, tap the potential of the Trans-Caspian International Transport Route, and promote the diversification of freight train routes.
The two sides will strive to foster new growth drivers in 5G, big data, artificial intelligence, digital finance, cross-border e-commerce, green energy and other areas, and build a number of new exemplary cooperation projects.
The two sides announced that all border ports between China and Kazakhstan have resumed operation, a consensus has been reached on the resumption of flights between the two countries, and airlines from both sides will soon operate two-way non-stop flights twice a week.
Third, stay committed to carrying forward the ever-lasting China-Kazakhstan friendship.
The two sides have agreed on setting up consulates general in Xi'an and Aktobe respectively, and reached a consensus on establishing cultural centers in each other's country.
Efforts will be made to promote the establishment of a traditional Chinese medicine center, as well as Luban Workshop and other technical colleges, in Kazakhstan as soon as possible.
China is ready to constantly deepen international anti-pandemic cooperation with Kazakhstan, continue to provide vaccine assistance to Kazakhstan, support bilateral cooperation in drug research, development and production, and jointly build a global community of health for all.
Fourth, stay committed to upholding international fairness and justice.
We should spare no efforts to uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core and oppose unilateralism and bullying acts.
We should vigorously carry forward the Shanghai Spirit and promote the sound and stable development of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
We should work with other parties to actively study concrete ways and steps to upgrade the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia (CICA), so as to constantly push forward the development of the CICA.
Kazakhstan actively supports the Global Development Initiative and the Global Security Initiative.
China supports Kazakhstan in playing a more constructive role in international and regional affairs, and Kazakhstan is welcome to participate in BRICS Plus cooperation.