Article Number: 525
China: Remarks by Chargé d' Affaires a.i.
of the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Brunei Darussalam Mr. Wang Haitao at the Donation Event in Pai Yuek School, Temburong during Ramadan
Distinguished Mr. Koh Han Yong, Chairman of the Board of Pai Yuek School, Temburong,
Distinguished Mr. Ang Ping Hui, former Chairman of the Board of Pai Yuek School,
Distinguished Mr. Thong Kawang Soon, Principal of Pai Yuek School,
Dear Members of the Board, teachers, students and parents:
Good afternoon!
Today, the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in Brunei Darussalam holds the Ramadhan Donation in Pai Yuek School, Temburong, sending care and good wishes to 20 students and their families.
I am very glad to see everyone present here.
Muslims in China, just like those in Brunei, are currently celebrating Ramadhan, the holy month for Muslims and also a time for all walks of life to extend care and assistance to each other.
Mutual respect, good neighborliness and friendliness, helping those in need and difficulties, as well as generosity and charity are also traditional virtues of the Chinese people.
I am delighted to extend the care and good wishes to the students during Ramadhan on behalf of the Chinese Embassy.
The gifts provided by the Embassy include both necessities, like rice and cooking oil, and specialties, like T-shirts and pins commemorating the 30th Anniversary of the Establishment of Diplomatic Relations between China and Brunei, the collections and fridge magnates of the Brunei Primary School Students' Painting Competition organized by the Embassy, and the caps of China-Brunei Year of Tourism, all of which are carrying important and beautiful moments of bilateral friendship, and of course full of special significance.
I sincerely hope that the students and their families could feel the warmth, good wishes and friendship from China, and that the students from Pai Yuek School could actively participate in the future cultural activities organized by the Embassy, and grow up to be messengers of bilateral friendship.
China and Brunei are good neighbors, friends and partners across the sea, enjoying long history of mutual exchanges and deep friendship between the two peoples.
Last year marked the 30th Anniversary of the Establishment of Diplomatic Ties between our two countries, we supported and cooperated with each other in all fields such as politics, trade and economy, culture, people-to-people exchanges and epidemic prevention and control, which achieved fruitful results.
Amity between peoples holds the key to sound relations between states.
Since its establishment in 1950, despite difficulties such as geographical remoteness, inconvenient transportation and smaller number of students, Pai Yuek School, Temburong has always adhered to the tradition of Chinese school, teaching Chinese language, offering calligraphy courses, and has made important contributions to the advancement of the Chinese education, especially the promotion of the friendship among different ethnic groups.
Mr. Koh Han Yong, Mr. Ang Ping Hui, Mr. Thong Kawang Soon, and other Members of the Board and teachers, have all made great efforts for the construction and development of Pai Yuek School, Temburong.
I would like to extend my great respect to you all.
The Embassy has always been concerned with the development of the Chinese schools and Chinese education in Brunei, and actively rendered support in this regard.
Pai Yuek School, Temburong has the highest percentage of Malay students among the eight Chinese schools in Brunei.
H.E.
Yu Hong, Ambassador of the People's Republic of China to Brunei, visited all eight Chinese schools including Pai Yuek School, Temburong many times, donated cash, computers, books, and actively provided assistance in securing Chinese learning materials.
After the outbreak of pandemic in Brunei, the Embassy provided twice Chinese medicine Lianhua Qingwen capsules to the teachers and students of Chinese schools, helping them to fight against COVID-19, build health barriers and solve practical difficulties.
The Embassy will continue to firmly support the development of Chinese education in Brunei and hopes that the teachers, students and parents of Pai Yuek School, Temburong could learn more about China, care about and support the cooperation between China and Brunei, and become the inheritor and promoter of China- Brunei friendship.
I sincerely wish all Members of the Board, teachers, students and parents good health and success, and a Selamat Hari Raya Aidilfitri in advance to everyone!
Thank you all!