Article Number: 294
Iran joins SCO as India hosts summit
New Delhi, July 4 -- Iran joined the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation at its 23rd leaders' summit, hosted virtually by India as chairman of the grouping.
Iran's inclusion is set to give the West Asian nation more breathing room as it looks to break out of its diplomatic isolation after the collapse of its nuclear agreement with the US.
China and Russia, two other SCO members, have also been keen to build closer ties with countries that are not aligned with Western powers.
Belarus, a close ally of Russia, also moved closer to securing membership.
India's foreign secretary Vinay Mohan Kwatra stated that the country will be admitted to the body during next year's summit.
China, for its part, proposed the creation of an SCO development bank during the summit.
"China proposes that the SCO scale up local currency settlement between member states, expand cooperation on sovereign digital currency, and promote the establishment of an SCO development bank," said Chinese President Xi Jinping.
China's push for settling trade in national currencies was backed by Russian President Vladimir Putin.
The SCO began as a grouping of the Russian Federation, Central Asian republics and China in the late 1990s.It was originally intended to function as a minilateral body that would build trust and reduce tensions between these erstwhile rivals in the aftermath of the Cold War.
The SCO as it stands today was founded in 2001, and India joined the grouping in 2017 along with Pakistan.
The summit saw participation from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Russia's Putin, Pakistan Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif and China's Xi.
The SCO's focus has traditionally been on functional issues like economic development, security and counter-terrorism.
"India has established five new pillars of cooperation within the SCO: Startups and Innovation, Traditional Medicine, Youth Empowerment, Digital Inclusion, and Shared Buddhist Heritage," said Modi in his remarks at the summit.
New Delhi also took aim at Islamabad and Beijing during the summit.
"Strong connectivity is crucial for the progress of any region.
Better connectivity not only enhances mutual trade but also fosters mutual trust.
However, in these efforts, it is essential to uphold the basic principles of the SCO charter, particularly respecting the sovereignty and regional integrity of the Member States," Modi said.
His words were an allusion to the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, which India has opposed since its runs through Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK).
India also restated its concerns over the continuation of cross-border terrorism.
"Some countries use cross-border terrorism as an instrument of their policies, provide shelter to terrorists.
SCO should not hesitate to criticize such nations.
There should be no place for double standards on such serious matters," the Prime Minister added.
However, the SCO's connectivity agenda may also get a boost from Iran's entry.
Modi called for the use of Chabahar Port in Iran to boost trade and connectivity between India and Central Asia.
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT.