Article Number: 521
Unlocking secrets of traditional cures
CLEAN TECH
The global spotlight is on traditional medicine.
Centuries-old treatment and healing practices will now bestudied systematically to validate and pave the way for greater acceptance.
In a first of sorts, the World Health Organisation (WHO) Global Centre for Traditional Medicines (GCTM), coming up at Jamnagar (Gujarat), has been tasked with this mammoth effort.
It will drive innovation for sustainable traditional medicines (TMs), even as it supports existing ones using modern scientific tools to document and underpin the traditional knowledge with evidence.
About 80 per cent of the world's population uses traditional and complementary medicines (T&CM), says the WHO.
Naturally, the fraternity, including practitioners and consumers, are ecstatic.
The WHO Centre, they say, will bring much-needed recognition to these therapies discounted by critics as “a science of fraud".
Validation is important
Traditional medicines have followed a practice-based evidence approach.
Modern medicine, on the other hand, follows the evidence-based approach.
And therein lay the mistrust.
But Dr K Jagannathan, President, Board of Unani, Siddha and Sowa Rigpa, under the National Commission for Indian System of Medicine (NCISM), is optimistic that an evidence-based approach will strengthen the understanding of traditional medicines.
"The Indian system of medicine is time-tested and practised from time immemorial.
But scientific validation is also important, to ensure the quality, efficacy and safety of these medicines.
Every country has its own traditional medical science, drugs and regulatory bodies.
If these are scientifically validated, we can convince the global community," he says.
At the launch of the centre a fortnight ago, WHO Director General Dr Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus called for more study to “bring the benefits of traditional and complementary medicine into wider use”.
WHO plans to use artificial intelligence (AI) to document the impact of traditional medicine where randomised trials are not possible.
The Ayush systems of ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy often face financial constraints to undertake clinical trials.
Local clinical trials cost upto Rs.
3.5 crore and global trials cost Rs.
20 crore, making them unviable, industry sources say.
Ashish Kumar, Chief Executive Officer, Dr Willmar Schwabe India (a leading firm in homoeopathy medicines), said, “We can't compare with the chemical or allopathy industry, because the trials for a product run for years.
Homoeopathy has about 20,000 products including mother tinctures and so on.
For each product if you ask for trials, neither the Ayush industry nor the government can do it.
So, there is a need for certain efficacy-demonstration studies, which will be a combination of qualitative and clinical aspects."
Also, countries look for different specifications of the same herbal product.
Take ashwagandha — some seek root specifications, others ask for leaf specifications.
"We see the government pushing for equity in specifications.
It is a challenging task, but with WHO doing it, it will get global acceptance," says Kumar.
Anup Thakar, Director of Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar, which will be GCTM's interim office, says, "WHO is already on the task to develop a suitable methodology to validate claims of traditional medicines and compile the data.
A suitable scientific method will be developed.
It is a dynamic process. "
"The basic principle-based parameters of different systems such as the five-elemental theories, 96 tatva theories, vaata-pitta-kafam, seven body constituents, body temperament, and so on need to be integrated.
That will be beneficial for the wholesome understanding of our traditional medical systems," said Dr Jagannathan.
Much hope is pinned on the upcoming centre and its tools to help unravel the secrets locked in traditional therapies.
Africa:African traditional medicines
Eastern Mediterranean:Traditional Arab and Islamic medicine
South-East Asia: Ayurveda, yoga, unani, nuad Thai
WHO's 170 members use traditional and complementary medicine (T&CM) and have formally developed policies, laws, regulations.
WHO has identified ten T&CM practices:
Acupuncture (113 members use it)
Herbal medicines (110 members)
Indigenous TM (109 members)
Homoeopathy (100)
Traditional Chinese medicines (100)
Naturopathy (90-plus)
Ayurvedic medicine
Chiropractic
Osteopathy
Unani (82)
WHO looks to include traditional medicine in the 11th revision of the International Classification of Diseases to establish reliable data on their use.
WHO to use artificial intelligence to document the impact of traditional medicine practices wherever standard randomised trials are not possible or are difficult to undertake.
WHO's Covid-19 research database has over 2,500 citations of traditional medicine.
Traditional medicine publications are among the top five downloaded on the WHO website.