Article Number: 494
China: Wang Yi Holds Talks with Kazakh Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mukhtar Tileuberdi
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi held talks with Kazakh Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mukhtar Tileuberdi in Nur-Sultan.
Wang Yi said, China-Kazakhstan relations have withstood the tests of twists and turns over the past 30 years, and the two sides have established a permanent comprehensive strategic partnership.
Our mutual trust and friendship have reached an unprecedented high, setting a model for state-to-state relations.
China-Kazakhstan friendship embodies the painstaking efforts and wisdom of several generations of leaders and people of the two countries and should be cherished all the more.
China always regards Kazakhstan as a brotherly neighbor with high mutual trust and a strategic partner for win-win cooperation.
China is ready to follow through on the strategic arrangements of the two heads of state, earnestly take stock of the valuable experience in the development of bilateral relations over the past 30 years, carry forward traditional friendship, enhance strategic mutual trust, firmly support each other, be a strong buttress for each other's stability and revitalization, and jointly forge the next golden three decades of China-Kazakhstan relations.
Tileuberdi warmly welcomed Wang Yi's visit, saying that this visit is of great significance for deepening Kazakhstan-China permanent comprehensive strategic partnership.
Under the guidance of the two heads of state, Kazakhstan-China relations have maintained a high level of development.
Kazakhstan regards China as an eternal neighbor and all-weather friend, attaches great importance to the unique and special friendly relations between the two countries, always prioritizes relations with China in Kazakhstan's diplomacy, and is full of confidence in the future of Kazakhstan-China relations.
He expressed readiness to take the opportunity of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties to well plan the prospects of bilateral strategic cooperation, deepen practical cooperation in a wide range of areas, and constantly inject new impetus into the development of Kazakhstan-China relations.
The two sides agreed to advance high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and give full play to mechanisms such as the China-Kazakhstan Cooperation Committee, the dialogue on production capacity and investment cooperation, and the China-Kazakhstan Sub-national Cooperation Forum, so as to pursue diversified, in-depth and high-level bilateral cooperation.
The two sides are pleased with the strong resilience shown by the robust recovery of bilateral economic and trade cooperation, and are ready to strengthen cooperation on production capacity, investment and energy, expand cooperation in manufacturing, and prioritize the implementation of social and livelihood projects in Kazakhstan, so as to help diversify its economic structure.
The two sides will explore new growth drivers of high-tech cooperation such as 5G, artificial intelligence and green energy, and jointly build a green Silk Road and a digital Silk Road.
The two sides will continue to enhance connectivity and forge efficient, convenient and digitalized freight train service, which has been hailed as a "steel camel fleet".
The land ports on the China-Kazakhstan borders have all resumed operation, and the two sides will make good use of the joint prevention and control mechanism to speed up the passage of goods.
Both sides agreed to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation.
Tileuberdi expressed heartfelt thanks to the Chinese side for its timely and important assistance in Kazakhstan's fight against the pandemic.
The two sides will promote the establishment of a traditional Chinese medicine center in Kazakhstan and deepen cooperation in traditional medicine.
The two sides agreed to promote the establishment of cultural centers in each other's countries and carry out people-to-people and cultural exchanges in diverse forms, so as to enhance people-to-people ties.
The two sides agreed to facilitate personnel exchanges and set up consulates general in Xi'an and Aktobe respectively.
The Kazakh side said that it would extend the visa-free period for Chinese citizens from 72 hours to 14 days.
The two sides agreed to continue to support each other in the international arena, strengthen coordination and collaboration in regional organizations, fully leverage the strengths of the new platform of the "China+Central Asia" (C+C5) cooperation mechanism, and work together for the success of the upcoming third C+C5 Foreign Ministers' Meeting.
The two sides also agreed to vigorously carry forward the Shanghai Spirit and maintain the momentum of the steady development of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization.
China supports Kazakhstan in hosting the sixth Summit of the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, and will work with Kazakhstan to safeguard regional security and development, and prevent the turbulence in Europe from being replicated in the region.
Kazakhstan is welcome to take an active part in BRICS Plus cooperation.
The two sides also exchanged views on the regional situation and other issues of common concern.
After the talks, the two sides jointly met the press.