Article Number: 634
China: Wang Yi Holds Talks with Vietnamese Foreign Minister Bui Thanh Son
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi held talks with Vietnamese Foreign Minister Bui Thanh Son in Anji County, Zhejiang Province.
Wang Yi said that this year is very important for China and Vietnam and bilateral relations.
The Communist Party of China (CPC) solemnly celebrated the 100th anniversary of its founding and successfully convened the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee.
Vietnam has successfully completed the transition of party and government leadership, anchoring its two centenary goals of the founding of the Party and the country.
The friendship of mutual assistance and resilience of pragmatic cooperation between the two countries have been fully demonstrated in the fight against the pandemic.
These embody the essence of the building of a community with a shared future of strategic significance between China and Vietnam.
We should follow the consensus reached by the top leaders of the two parties and the two countries and work together to promote the sustained, sound and stable development of the China-Vietnam comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership.
Bui Thanh Son warmly congratulated the CPC on the successful convening of the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee, and sincerely wishes the 2022 CPC National Congress, the Beijing Olympic Winter Games and other major domestic and international agendas a full success.
Bui Thanh Son said that China is the country that provides the most vaccines to Vietnam, and Vietnam is deeply grateful for this.
As a sincere and close comrade and close neighbor, Vietnam has always supported China in growing stronger and playing a greater role in the international arena.
Wang Yi said that the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee comprehensively reviewed the great achievements and historical experience of the CPC's centennial endeavors, clarified the "two establishments", embodied the common will of the entire Party, and reflected the common aspirations of the entire Party and the people of the country.
China and Vietnam, both socialist countries led by the Communist Party, have embarked on the development paths suited to our own national conditions.
We must not forget our original aspirations, strengthen our confidence, and unite as one, and make our own contributions to safeguarding the socialist cause of the two countries and the cause of human development and progress.
The two sides exchanged in-depth views on bilateral relations and cooperation in various fields.
Both sides agreed that the talks were sincere and open, and full of comradeship, which further consolidated mutual trust, enhanced traditional friendship, and achieved practical results.
The two sides reached important consensus on planning the next phase of cooperation and continuously injecting new connotations into bilateral relations.
First, the two sides need to strengthen political leadership.
Both sides need to maintain close high-level communication, give full play to the role of cooperation mechanisms in the fields of inter-party, diplomacy, national defense, and law enforcement and security, strengthen exchanges on strategic and overall issues, and constantly expand consensus.
Second, the two sides need to deepen mutually beneficial cooperation.
Both sides expressed satisfaction that the bilateral trade volume is expected to reach a historic breakthrough of 200 billion U.S. dollars this year, and agreed to further strengthen the alignment of development strategies, so as to add new momentum to the pragmatic cooperation between the two sides.
The two countries will work together to ensure the stability and smooth flow of the supply chain and industrial chain, and promote regional connectivity.
Third, the two sides need to strengthen cooperation in fighting against the pandemic.
China will continue to provide anti-pandemic materials and vaccines to Vietnam.
Both sides agreed to support enterprises of the two countries in accelerating cooperation in vaccine liquid bottling production in Vietnam under the guidance of the government, and further discuss cooperation on mutual recognition of vaccination, capacity building, and applications of traditional Chinese medicine.
Fourth, the two sides need to consolidate the foundation of popular support.
Both sides need to deepen people-to-people cooperation between the youth and local governments of the two countries, enhance mutual understanding between the two peoples, and carry forward the traditional friendship between China and Vietnam from generation to generation.
The two sides conducted in-depth communication on China-ASEAN cooperation.
Wang Yi said that the successful holding of the Summit Commemorating the 30th Anniversary of the Establishment of China-ASEAN Dialogue Relations has opened a new chapter in bilateral relations.
The year 2022 is the first year for the implementation of China-ASEAN Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.
China is willing to work with Vietnam and other ASEAN countries to upgrade the China-ASEAN Comprehensive Strategic Partnership Action Plan in a timely manner to achieve higher-quality and higher-level development of bilateral relations.
Bui Thanh Son agreed with this.
The two sides exchanged views on global development issues.
Wang Yi said that the Global Development Initiative proposed by President Xi Jinping has received positive responses and support from the international community.
China is willing to work with ASEAN countries including Vietnam to formulate cooperation plans based on the development needs of each country and form an international synergy to help accelerate the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
Bui Thanh Son said that ASEAN recognizes this important initiative and is willing to discuss specific implementation measures with China to jointly promote global sustainable development.
The two sides also exchanged views on maritime issues and agreed to work together to advance maritime cooperation and inject more "positive energy" into bilateral relations.
(Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China)