Article Number: 155
Karachi Univ's professor elected as PAS Secretary of the Sindh Chapter
The Pakistan Academy of Sciences (PAS) has elected Prof. Dr. M. Raza Shah, the senior professor at the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), the University of Karachi, unopposed as a Secretary of the Sindh Chapter of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences, says a Press release.
According to the spokesman of the ICCBS, University of Karachi, PAS is devoted to promoting higher studies and research on pure and applied sciences in Pakistan and disseminating scientific knowledge.
It is pertinent to mention here that only scientists of the highest merit, who have made outstanding contributions to advancing scienti?c knowledge, are elected fellows.
The ICCBS, University of Karachi Director, Prof. Dr. Farzana Shaheen congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his achievement.
According to the ICCBS Spokesman, Prof. Shah, working in the area of Nanomedicine and Supramolecular Chemistry, has authored six books (Elsevier) and also edited four books (Elsevier), along with 12 chapters in books and more than 460 research articles in international journals with impact factor more than 1700 with H-index 49.
He has three US patents to his credit.
He has supervised and co-supervised 34 PhDs.
and 44 M.S/M.Phil scholars.
He was declared the top scientist for the year 2019 by the government of KPK.
He received the Civil Award of Tamgha-i-Imtiaz in 2015.
He received the Dr. Atta-ur-Rahman gold medal in 2006 and the Dr. Raziuddin gold medal in 2015 from the Pakistan Academy of Sciences.
He received the Dr. Abdus Salam (Nobel Laureate) award in chemistry.
One of his authored books was declared the best book of the year 2017 by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan.
He is a fellow of various national and international academies and organizations.
He led the vaccine (COVID-19) phase-1 clinical trial of Sinopharm company in Pakistan.
He led the DRAP-approved clinical trial for treating COVID-19 patients with traditional Chinese medicines.
On the other hand, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Karachi, Prof. Dr. Khalid Mehmood Iraqi, Prof. Dr. Atta-ur Rahman, Professor Emeritus and former Federal Minister for Science and Technology, and Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary, the Coordinator-General OIC-COMSTECH, and UNESCO CHAIR on Medicinal and Bio-Organic Natural Product Chemistry ICCBS, also congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his achievement.