Article Number: 48
Stock tonic Chinese traditional medicine maker's shares surge on Covid outbreak
Riordan, Primrose; Ho-Him, Chan; Lockett, Hudson; Li, Gloria.
The stake held by the family behind one of China's largest traditional medicine groups has rocketed in value to $4.5bn after outbreaks of Covid-19 triggered renewed interest in its coronavirus treatment.
Shares in Wu Yiling's Shijiazhuang Yiling Pharmaceutical have jumped more than 60 per cent since the end of December despite a US warning against the company's coronavirus treatment.
The rally came on top of a 160 per cent gain in early 2020 after Beijing endorsed the treatment.
The stock price had hovered at about Rmb8 ($1.26) before the pandemic but hit record levels after the medicine was promoted in Hong Kong, closing out last week at Rmb31.5.
The rally has boosted the value of the family's near 55 per cent stake in the company, listed in Shenzhen, to about Rmb28.8bn.
Wu is known in China for developing a cardiovascular treatment out of centipede, scorpion, leech and cicada.
His company sells Lianhua Qingwen, a coronavirus treatment with ingredients including honeysuckle, liquorice root, apricot seed and forsythia.
The treatment from Wu's company was endorsed by Zhong Nanshan, an expert advising the Chinese government on coronavirus, and Carrie Lam, Hong Kong's chief executive.
Hong Kong is reeling from its biggest outbreak of the pandemic, and a surge in China has forced Shanghai and other cities into lockdown.
Beijing has promoted traditional medicine on the global stage in recent years, and state media have trumpeted Shijiazhuang Yiling's success in gaining regulatory approval in African and Middle Eastern countries.
But the US Food and Drug Administration, as well as Singaporean and Australian authorities, have warned that there was no evidence that Lianhua Qingwen had any effect on the virus, and cautioned against its use.
The FDA said claims that Lianhua Qingwen could prevent or treat Covid were "not supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence".
The dramatic stock rise began after Lianhua Qingwen was recommended in Beijing's official treatment protocols for coronavirus in March 2020.
Wu owns a 31.5 per cent stake in the company, while his son Wu Xiangjun and daughter Wu Rui own collectively 23 per cent, according to the company's latest quarterly report.
A version of the drug distributed in mainland China was initially not approved in Hong Kong, where health authorities raided pharmacies selling it in February.
Mainland companies have since donated hundreds of thousands of packs to the city.
CREDIT: PRIMROSE RIORDAN, CHAN HO-HIM, HUDSON LOCKETT AND GLORIA LI HONG KONG CAPTION: The US, Singapore and Australia say there is no evidence that Lianhua Qingwen affects the virus — Tyrone Siu/Reuters