Article Number: 292
SCO countries need to counter terror without hesitation: PM Modi [Defence]
Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury.
Terrorism has become a threat to regional and global peace and Eurasia needs to counter the menace without hesitation, PM Narendra Modi said while addressing the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) Summit on Tuesday.
He called on member states to band together to fight terrorism and not hesitate to condemn countries that support terror during a virtual address that was also attended by the Pakistani Prime Minister.
"Terrorism has become a major threat to regional and global peace.
Dealing with this challenge requires decisive action," he said.
"Regardless of its form or manifestation, we must unite in our fight against terrorism.
Some countries use cross-border terrorism as an instrument of their policies, provide shelter to terrorists.
SCO should not hesitate to criticise such nations.
There should be no place for double standards on such serious matters."
He called for enhanced mutual cooperation in dealing with terror financing as well.
"The RATS (Regional Anti-Terror Structure) mechanism of SCO has played a significant role in this regard," he said.
"We should also take proactive steps to prevent the spread of radicalisation among our youth.
The joint statement issued today on the subject of radicalisation symbolises our shared commitment."
Strong connectivity is crucial for the progress of any region.
Better connectivity not only enhances mutual trade but also fosters mutual trust.
However, in these efforts, it is essential to uphold the basic principles of the SCO charter, particularly respecting the sovereignty and regional integrity of the member states, the PM said with reference to the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) that violates India's sovereignty via the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC).
India has established five new pillars for cooperation in the SCO, which include startups and innovation; traditional medicine; youth empowerment; digital inclusion; and shared Buddhist heritage.
The Prime Minister outlined these as India's areas of focus for Eurasia.
Afghan soil should not be allowed to be used to destabilise its neighbourhood, he said.
He also exhorted member states to work for the welfare of Afghanistan and provide humanitarian aid to the nation.
"As chair of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, India has made sustained efforts to take our multifaceted cooperation to new heights," the PM said.
The summit was attended by Chinese President Xi Jinping, Russian President Vladimir Putin and Pakistan Prime Minister Shehbaz Sharif, among others.
India's people-to-people ties with the Eurasia region that are thousands of years old are living testimony to their shared heritage.
"Over the past two decades, the SCO has emerged as an important platform for peace, prosperity and development in the entire Eurasia region," he said.
He also highlighted the fact that the food, fuel and fertiliser crisis is a big challenge for all countries, beset as they are by tensions and the threat of epidemics.
Modi also said that India supports the proposal for reform and modernisation of the SCO.
"We have actively involved all observer and dialogue partners of the SCO in 14 different programmes.
In the 14 ministerial-level meetings of the SCO, we have collectively prepared several important documents," he said.
Modi hails Iran's SCO entry
"I am happy that Iran is joining as a new member," he said.
"I congratulate President Ebrahim Raisi and the Iranian people."
Belarus signed a memorandum of obligations that will lead to its membership later.
India is handing over the presidency of the SCO to Kazakhstan at the summit.