Article Number: 421
China: Li Keqiang Holds Talks with Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen
Premier of the State Council Li Keqiang held talks with Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen at the Peace Palace in Phnom Penh.
Li Keqiang noted that China and Cambodia enjoy profound traditional friendship, deep political mutual trust, and fruitful practical cooperation in various fields.
In 2016, Chinese President Xi Jinping made a successful visit to Cambodia; in 2020, President Xi awarded Cambodian Queen Mother Norodom Monineath Sihanouk the Friendship Medal of the People's Republic of China.
Both events marked new chapters in China-Cambodia friendship.
Li said that Prime Minister Hun Sen was the first foreign leader to visit China after the country was hit by COVID-19, leaving a deep impression on the Chinese people, and that he was truly delighted to come to Phnom Penh to attend the Leaders' Meetings on East Asian Cooperation and pay an official visit to Cambodia on his first overseas trip since the outbreak of the pandemic nearly three years ago.
China congratulates Cambodia on its new economic and social development.
It is China's consistent position that all countries are equal regardless of their size, and that all countries should abide by the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.
China supports Cambodia in pursuing a development path suited to its national conditions, and in playing a more important role on the international and regional arena.
China stands ready to work with Cambodia to enhance high-level exchanges and communication, and support each other on issues concerning each other's core interests and major concerns, so as to promote sustained and sound development of the China-Cambodia comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership and bring more benefits to the two peoples.
Li Keqiang pointed out that China is ready to work with Cambodia to build on the momentum of 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties next year to ensure the success of the series events marking the Year of China-Cambodia Friendship.
China supports Cambodia's efforts in advancing agricultural science and technology and industrialization, and will increase import of competitive agricultural produce from Cambodia.
China will continue to advance major projects in Cambodia, and support its effort to accelerate industrialization.
China will assist with Cambodia's de-mining operations, effectively implement China-aided projects on roads, medical care, water supply, among others, and do its best to assist Cambodia in improving its people's livelihood.
China will also deepen cooperation with Cambodia in such fields as science, technology, education and culture, increase direct flights between the two countries, and welcome Cambodian students to China for studies.
Li stressed that a stable, growing and prosperous Cambodia is of great significance for maintaining regional stability and development and advancing the relationship between China and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
China fully supports Cambodia's ASEAN presidency and its effort to ensure the success of the Leaders' Meetings on East Asian Cooperation, firmly supports ASEAN's unity and centrality, and the ASEAN-led regional cooperation architecture, and supports ASEAN in playing a greater role in promoting international and regional peace and development.
Hun Sen said that Cambodia and China are ironclad friends; the Cambodia-China friendship has won the support of the Cambodian people; and there is much to be done in bilateral cooperation.
Cambodia is firmly committed to the one-China policy, and supports the building of a Cambodia-China community with a shared future.
Cambodia is ready to work with China to ensure the success of commemorative events marking the 65th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries next year, strengthen exchanges and cooperation in such fields as trade, investment, agriculture, energy, infrastructure and public health, as well as people-to-people and cultural exchanges, and promote in-depth development of bilateral relationship and cooperation.
Cambodia respects the principle of safeguarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries as enshrined in the UN Charter and stands ready to maintain close coordination and cooperation with China within multilateral frameworks to jointly safeguard peace, stability and development in the region and the larger world.
The two sides also had an in-depth exchange of views on international and regional issues of mutual interest and concern.
Following the talks, Premier Li and Prime Minister Hun Sen witnessed the signing of more than ten bilateral cooperation documents covering agriculture, infrastructure, education, traditional Chinese medicine, customs, science and technology, climate change response and other fields.
They also attended the inauguration ceremony of the Phnom Penh-Sihanoukville Expressway and the handover ceremony of supporting livelihood projects.
China and Cambodia will issue a joint communiqué.
Prior to the talks, Prime Minister Hun Sen held a grand welcoming ceremony for Premier Li at the Peace Palace.
The two prime ministers stepped onto the review stand as the military band played the national anthems of China and Cambodia, and Li, accompanied by Hun Sen, inspected the guard of honor.
On the afternoon of the same day, Li Keqiang laid wreaths at the Independence Monument of Cambodia and the Statue of King Father Norodom Sihanouk respectively.
Xiao Jie attended the above events.