Article Number: 632
China: China - CELAC Joint Action Plan For Cooperation In Key Areas (2022-2024)
The Third Ministers' Meeting of the China - CELAC Forum took place, virtually, on December 3rd, 2021.
The People's Republic of China and the CELAC Member States (hereinafter the Parties), hereby agree to adopt the China-CELAC Joint Action Plan for Cooperation in Key Areas (2022-2024) through friendly consultations on an equal standing, the text of which is detailed below:
I.
Political and Security Cooperation
Strengthen high-level contacts and meetings between leaders and representatives of both Parties in multilateral fora and other forms of exchange, and to expand contacts at different levels to share governance and public administration experiences to a greater extent.
The possibility of holding a CCF Summit in 2024 on occasion of its tenth anniversary will be explored.
Respectful of domestic laws of each country and based on the principles of international law, promote dialogue and cooperation in combating all forms of terrorism and its financing, as well as violent extremism and the dissemination of hate speech in cyberspace, and share knowledge, policies, technologies and experiences in this regard.
Agree to promote and implement United Nation (UN) Security Council's Resolution 1373.
In accordance with the respective domestic laws of each country and the agreed international conventions, strengthen dialogue and cooperation against all manifestations of transnational organized crime, illicit arms trafficking, and illicit financial flows and address the illicit production and trafficking of narcotic drugs, and psychotropic substances.
Cooperate to facilitate the implementation of United Nations (UN) Security Council Resolution 1540 (2004), to effectively advance on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (nuclear, biological and chemical) and their means of delivery, and to strengthen dialogue and cooperation on conventional arsenal and ammunition control.
China is willing to further strengthen its contacts and cooperation with the Agency for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean (OPANAL).
Promote a dialogue for cooperation, implement and eventually develop norms and rules for cyberspace, to tackle the misuse of information and communication technology (ICT) to incite and commit acts of terrorism; improve legal assistance mechanisms for cybercrime; participate actively in negotiations to elaborate a UN convention on countering the use of information and communications technologies for criminal purposes, and safeguard peace and security in cyberspace.
We highlight the Global Initiative on Data Security presented by China.
Expand bilateral and multilateral cooperation against corruption, trafficking, money laundering, tax evasion and illicit financial flows in accordance with the respective national laws and the UN Convention against Corruption.
Continue holding the China-Latin America Superior Defense Forum with a voluntary participation basis.
Strengthen cooperation in the areas of mutual legal assistance in criminal affairs and executive capacity building and establish mechanisms for direct and effective cooperation in judicial practices.
Hold the China-LAC Legal Forum in a timely manner.
II.
Pragmatic Economic Cooperation
Trade and Investment
Strengthen exchanges between trade and investment promotion agencies and commercial associations and promote pragmatic cooperation between enterprises.
Encourage the legitimate, convenient, and orderly flow of trade, investment and personnel.
Facilitate investments and optimize the trade environment.
To respect and protect the legitimate rights and interests of both enterprises in accordance with their respective national laws.
Strengthen exchanges and cooperation between the Parties in the fight against unfair competition and the creation of a fair and equitable market for the development of bilateral economic and trade relations.
Strengthen cooperation between the Parties' industries in fields such as the digital economy, financial inclusion and sustainable development.
Explore the possibility of building digital and green infrastructures.
Promote the digital transformation of traditional industries and sustainable production and operation.
Deepen international cooperation in trade in services.
Expand cooperation in e-commerce and strengthen policy exchanges, government-business cooperation, and capacity building.
Continue to successfully carry out the China-LAC Infrastructure Cooperation Forum, the China-LAC Business Summit and the High-Level China-Latin America Investment and Cooperation Forum.
Hold the Fourth China-Caribbean Economic and Trade Cooperation Forum in due course.
China welcomes CELAC Member States to participate in the China International Import Expo, China Import and Export Fair, China International Fair for Trade in Services and other exhibitions, etc.
Finance
II.1 Deepen cooperation among financial institutions, providing financial cooperation mechanisms for the development of China-LAC projects.
As well as encourage incentives as appropriate to the financial institutions with the aim to increase financing and credit insurance support for trade and investment projects between China and LAC.
II.2 Bring the functions of China's financing package to LAC countries, into full play, by providing a key support to strategic projects benefiting the sustainable economic and social development of the CELAC Member States, particularly favoring the Small Island Developing States, Low Lying Coastal Countries and Central American Isthmus countries.
China will assist in conducting feasibility studies on the development of comprehensive projects and elaborate development plans.
II.3 Considering the capacities and financial regulations of each party involved, intensify the dialogue and cooperation between the Central Banks and the financial regulatory authorities, supporting the extension of settlement in local currencies between the CELAC countries and of these with China.
Agriculture and Food
Consolidate and expand bilateral and multilateral agricultural cooperation and foster collaboration between agricultural scientific research institutions, to implement technical exchanges, joint research and development, and innovation in the areas of cultivation, breeding and processing of agricultural products in a sustainable manner.
Strengthen policy exchanges on public policy issues in food security, support joint research and development of variety selection and breeding, cultivation, and food processing technology, encourage business to invest in cultivation, processing and storage and logistics infrastructure for agricultural products.
Promote and develop family farming that contributes to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in an inclusive, collaborative and sustainable manner.
China is willing to encourage the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to allocate US$2 million from the FAO-China Trust Fund for South-South and triangular Cooperation to support CELAC Member States to address food security problems.
Strengthen cooperation regarding the import and export of agriculture products, China welcomes safe and high-quality agricultural products from CELAC Member States to the Chinese market.
Encourage respective agricultural enterprises to participate in the important agricultural exhibitions held by the other Party.
China welcomes agricultural business from CELAC Member States to participate in exhibitions such as the China International Agricultural Trade Fair and the China International Tea Expo.
Strengthen cooperation in agricultural policy, agricultural science and technology and innovation seminars and human resource training in agricultural technology, and to promote the exchanges and mutual learning in agricultural and cattle raising management and production technology.
Recognize the consensus of the Second China-CELAC Forum of Ministers of Agriculture and to continue holding the Forum.
Science and Technology Innovation
Strengthen exchanges between scientific and technological authorities, to increase synergies between the innovation, academic, and scientific sectors of the Parties, and intensify exchange and academic activities between their researchers and innovative scholars.
In addition, promote exchange programs between young scientists and encourage scientific and technological personnel from CELAC Member States to actively participate in the Work Program in China for outstanding young scientists from developing countries.
Reaffirm the consensus reached at the Second and Third China-CELAC Science, Technology and Innovation Forum, and to continue holding the success of this Forum.
Explore cooperation in technology transfer, support the transfer and transformation of advanced technologies, promote cooperation between industry, research, and academy and cooperation in the field of intellectual property rights issues, among others.
Encourage enterprises to play the leading role in innovation and promote the improvement of scientific research capabilities and the development of scientific and technological achievements.
Explore cooperation in the construction of joint laboratories and strengthen joint research and technological innovation in priority areas of common interest.
Explore and promote cooperation in science and technology parks and support the exchange of experiences among the Parties.
Organize training courses of applicable advanced technologies and scientific management to promote regional common development of science, technology, society, and environment.
Strengthen exchanges and cooperation in the peaceful civilian use of nuclear energy and nuclear technology, promote relevant practical projects, experience sharing and cooperation in talent training, and bring into play the advantages offered by nuclear technology and nuclear energy in promoting economic development and people's well-being, as well as in meeting the challenges of climate change.
Industry and Information Technology
Strengthen industrial policy exchanges, deepen cooperation in the fields of raw materials, equipment manufacturing, green and low-carbon industries, and industrial and supply chains, and promote smart, digital and green development of industries in China and CELAC countries.
Strengthen mutually beneficial cooperation between governments, enterprises, and research institutions in digital infrastructure, telecommunications equipment, 5G, big data, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, Internet of Things, smart cities, Internet+, universal telecommunication services, radio spectrum management and other areas of common interest, and explore the construction of joint laboratories.
Promote cooperation and share experiences in the field of educational informatics.
Reiterate the consensus reached in the China-CELAC Digital Technology Anti-Epidemic Cooperation Forum and actively explore the establishment of the China-CELAC Digital Technology Cooperation Forum.
Aviation and Aerospace
Strengthen exchanges and cooperation in the field of aerospace, in matters of peaceful exploration of space, space science, satellite data sharing, satellite applications, construction of ground infrastructure, personnel training and education.
Actively promote the establishment of the China-CELAC Space Cooperation Forum.
China welcomes CELAC Member States to join the International Lunar Research Station, and supports them in developing space capabilities, and encourage an extensive cooperation in this field.
China welcomes and supports the establishment of the Latin American and Caribbean Space Agency (ALCE).
Actively explore cooperation in the BeiDou Satellite Navigation System, satellite development, application and calibration, so that the progress of space technology will truly accelerate progress towards green, sustainable and inclusive recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic and beyond.
Promote and consolidate friendly cooperation in the aeronautical industry both among companies and governmental entities.
Consolidate mutually beneficial and friendly cooperation in the field of civil aviation.
Energy and Resources
Strengthen communication and exchange of public policies in the energy industry and its resources and promote cooperation especially for the transition towards cleaner and more inclusive energetic systems.
Work towards a deepen cooperation in the fields of electricity, oil, gas, renewable energies, new energies, nuclear energy for civilian use, energy technology, electromobility and equipment, geological and energy mining resources.
Explore the expansion of cooperation in emerging industries related to clean energy and resources, technology transfer between companies, improve the mining investment environment, taking into account the respect and care of the natural environment.
Promote energy saving and strengthen cooperation in energy efficiency to achieve peak emissions and carbon neutrality.
Promote cooperation regarding the exploration of mineral resources and the comprehensive use of innovative technical methods and clean technologies with low carbon emissions.
Strengthen cooperation in energy saving, capture, use and storage of carbon.
Strengthen cooperation in technical capacities, through academic exchanges to promote the research and development of technologies and methods in the mining sector.
Tourism
Support cooperation in the tourism industry and encourage the tourism industry entities to create sustainable touristic routes and products based on their national characteristics and cultural heritage.
China welcomes CELAC Member States to participate in the China International Cultural Industry Fair (Shenzhen), China International Travel Mart and China Tourism Industry Exposition, and supports qualified and large-scale tourism businesses, associations and cities in CELAC Member States to join the World Tourism Alliance.
Encourage the exchange of relevant tourism information and data with a view to enhance tourism opportunities between China and CELAC Member States.
Customs and Taxes
Deepen cooperation in the mutual recognition of Authorized Economic Operator (AEO).
Strengthen cooperation in law enforcement to combat smuggling and promote the training of professionals.
Strengthen exchanges and cooperation between the tax departments of the Parties.
Infrastructures in the Area of Quality
Enhance cooperation and exchanges in the area of metrology and promote policy communication and technology exchanges in metrology.
Strengthen cooperation and exchanges in the field of standardization, promote information exchange on standards and step up cooperation in standardization training.
Strengthen information exchange and cooperation in conformity assessment and promote result acceptance in the field of conformity assessment.
III.
High-Quality Infrastructure Cooperation
Recall the Special Declaration of Santiago of the II Ministerial Meeting of the China-CELAC Forum on the Belt and Road Initiative (2018), whereby the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of CELAC welcomed, with interest, the presentation of the Chinese Foreign Minister on the Belt and Road Initiative for deepening cooperation among Latin American and Caribbean Countries and China in the economic, trade, investment, cultural and tourism sectors, among others.
Deepen cooperation to promote mutual productive investment projects, including in infrastructure and promote the implementation of relevant projects of investment and cooperation.
Hold the first Cooperation Forum on China-CELAC Transport Cooperation as soon as possible.
Deepen private sector cooperation between China and the LAC countries, and explore holding a China-CELAC Private Sector Cooperation Forum.
The Chinese side welcomes relevant institutions of CELAC Member States to participate in mechanisms to strengthen exchanges of experiences and technologies in pollution prevention and control, and support cooperation in the environmental protection industry.
IV.
Cooperation in Social, Cultural and People-to-People Matters
Public Health
I.1 Intensify dialogue on public health policies.
Recognize and appreciate the Special Videoconference of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of China and Latin American and Caribbean Countries against COVID-19 (held on July 22, 2020) and the Videoconference for the Exchange of Experiences on the Prevention and Control of COVID-19 between Experts from China and Latin American and Caribbean Countries.
I.2 Deepen solidarity and cooperation and strengthen the study of COVID-19 variants and cooperation in joint vaccine production, research and development.
The Chinese side is willing to offer anti-epidemic assistance to CELAC Member States within its capabilities.
I.3 Deepen dialogue in the field of health, to support cooperation between medical centers and health entities of various levels.
Support the exchange of best practices and experience in clinical medicine, disease prevention and control, prevention and treatment of communicable diseases, response to health emergencies, bio-medicine, and drug research, development, and regulation.
I.4 Intensify exchanges and cooperation in traditional medicine and continue to make a success of the China-CELAC Forum on Traditional Medicine to support the prevention and control of future pandemics.
I.5 Cooperate in the exchanges and training of administrative and professional health personnel.
I.6 China welcomes CELAC Member States to access the Special China-LAC Anti-epidemic Loans to support the construction of public health infrastructure in their respective countries.
I.7 China expresses its willingness to continue cataract surgery under the Brightness Action project in CELAC Member States.
Sustainable Development and Eradication of Poverty
Intensify dialogue and exchanges of experience among government departments responsible for improving the levels of well-being of all peoples, in order to advance the goal of putting an end to poverty so as to leave no one behind, with the aim of moving towards a new model of inclusive and sustainable development including the most vulnerable people.
Reiterate the achievements concerning the first China-CELAC Poverty Reduction and Development Forum and agree to hold this forum on an annual basis starting in 2022.
Promote think-tanks to deploy cooperative activities in research on eradication of poverty and offer specific recommendations to strengthen the design and implementation of public policies.
Support civil society organizations in strengthening exchange of experiences and cooperation in poverty eradication and sustainable and inclusive development.
Culture, Art and Sports
III.1 Promote mutual learning about civilizations of China and CELAC Member States and preserve cultural diversity.
Promote the establishment of cultural centers in China and CELAC countries or provide mutual support for the presentation and promotion of cultural contents of their respective countries.
III.2 Support the cooperation of cultural and creative industries.
III.3 Promote cooperation in the field of tangible and intangible cultural heritage, and strengthen cooperation in areas of exhibition, research and museum administration, protection and restoration of cultural patrimonies, prevention and combating illicit trafficking in cultural property, and safeguarding intangible heritage.
III.4 Promote mutual learning and communication between artists and artistic groups.
III.5 CELAC Member States support China in hosting the Beijing 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games.
III.6 Appreciate the successful holding of the China-LAC Online Tai Chi Competition and continue to organize the China-LAC Martial Arts Exchange Forum.
III.7 Expand exchanges and cooperation in sports.
Encourage exchanges between sports associations and send sports teams to participate in international competitions held in the other Party.
Likewise, support other initiatives, programs and projects of South-South and triangular cooperation in sports.
III.8 Reinforce the contribution of sport as a tool for development and its cross-cutting link with the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda.
Higher Education Institutions, Think Tanks and Young People
Support higher education institutions, research institutes and think tanks to increase exchanges, develop various forms of exchanges and cooperation between professors, students and academics and strengthen cooperation on national and regional issues, particularly aimed at women.
Between 2022 and 2024, the China shall provide CELAC Member States with 5,000 government scholarships and 3,000 training places in China.
Continue holding the China-LAC Think Tanks Forum, the China-CELAC High-Level Academic Forum, and to hold, if conditions permit, the China-CELAC University Dean Forum Presidents, promoting gender equality for the beneficiaries.
Promote exchanges between young leaders, implement the Bridge to the Future Training Program for One Thousand Chinese and Latin American Youth Leaders, and hold the China-LAC Youth Development Forum.
The Chinese side supports CELAC Member States to conduct Chinese language education, to incorporate Chinese language into their national education curricula and to open Confucius Institutes and Confucius Classrooms on a reciprocal basis.
Media and Communications
Promote collaboration among the media, encourage exchanges in radio and television, audiovisual services on the Internet, program fusion co-production and training of talents, periodically present TV series, and encourage the screening of cinematographic pieces.
Explore the establishment of a Mechanism for China-CELAC to cooperate on Media Outreach Communication.
Support media exchanges and dialogue and hold the China-LAC Media Forum in due course.
Local and Community Exchanges
Promote exchanges between local governments, support the pairing of sister provinces/cities, and build a network of China-LAC sister provinces/cities.
Continue holding the Forum for Cooperation among Local Governments of China and CELAC countries.
Strengthen exchanges between entities involved in people-to-people friendship, and continue holding the China-LAC People's Friendship Forum.
V. Sustainable Development
Actively implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and take as priority areas of cooperation those that contribute to the green, sustainable and resilient development of CELAC Member States, in the face of the effects of COVID-19.
We welcome the presentation of the Global Development Initiative by China and believe that this initiative may have the potential to accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, to pursue more robust, greener and balanced global development, in order to leave no one behind.
Develop policy exchanges and pragmatic cooperation to respond to climate change.
Conduct policy exchanges and training of personnel in environmental stewardship, biodiversity conservation and sustainable use, and the protection of our nations' biological diversity.
Develop, within the framework of relevant UN initiatives on the protection of the marine environment and the sustainable use of its natural resources, policy dialogue and exchanges of experiences on the reduction of plastics at sea and marine pollution from land-based sources.
Carry out exchanges and pragmatic cooperation in areas such as protection conservation and restoration of the marine ecosystem, prevention and mitigation of marine disasters, sustainable ocean economy, and scientific research on Antarctica.
CELAC Member States welcome the participation of China's financial institutions in the establishment of a system of cooperation for sustainable financing.
Strengthen exchanges and cooperation in areas such as integrated water resources management, flood and drought disaster risk prevention, land erosion remediation, water-saving agricultural irrigation, protection and remediation of river and lake ecosystems, and exploitation of non-conventional water resources.
Strengthen exchanges and cooperation in areas such as forest protection, protection of natural areas, prevention and control of desertification, prevention and combat of illegal wildlife trafficking and forest crimes, sustainable trade in forestry, and bamboo cultivation and utilization.
Explore the establishment of cooperation mechanisms for emergency management and promote exchanges and cooperation in disaster prevention and mitigation and disaster rescue.
Promote greater exchange of practical experience in rescue techniques in seismic zones, water areas and mountains, technical and command training for extinguishing forest and grassland fires, and the construction of disaster awareness and information systems.
Study the holding of the China-CELAC Emergency Management Exchange and Cooperation Forum.
Guarantee the rights of women and vulnerable groups to participate on equal terms in the creation of sustainable development models.
VI.
International Affairs and Subregional and Interregional Cooperation
Strengthen dialogue and cooperation in the United Nations, as well as in other international organizations and regional and multilateral mechanisms.
Reaffirm the important role of CELAC as a mechanism for dialogue and political concertation that contributes to socioeconomic development of the region, and support the presence of Latin America and the Caribbean in the international arena.
Strengthen communication on economic recovery in the post-COVID-19 era, sustainable and inclusive development, and other issues of common interests.
China supports the regional integration process in Latin America and the Caribbean and is willing to strengthen dialogue and cooperation with regional and sub-regional mechanisms and organizations.
Support the parallel advancement and mutual promotion between the China-CELAC Forum and the Forum on Latin America and East Asia Cooperation (FOCALAE).
Strengthen cooperation within the framework of the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) and the BRICS New Development Bank.
Give greater impetus to the Development Bank of Latin America (CAF) and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB) to play an important role in supporting accelerated development in the Latin American and Caribbean region.
VII.
Implementation
The areas of cooperation outlined in this Plan are not exclusive.
This Plan shall be developed with flexibility and voluntary participation and shall not affect any agreed bilateral cooperation project, nor shall it replace established bilateral or multilateral agreements, decisions, or commitments, and all the activities will be decided by mutual agreement, subjected to availability of financial and human resources of the national authorities.
In the implementation of this Plan, due consideration shall be given to the challenges and needs of the Least Developed Countries, Landlocked Developing Countries, Small Island Developing States, Middle Income Countries, and countries in conflict or emerging from conflict situations in CELAC.
(Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China)