Article Number: 489
China: Wang Yi Meets with Tajik Minister of Transport Azim Ibrohim
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Tajik Minister of Transport Azim Ibrohim after attending the third "China+Central Asia" (C+C5) Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Nur-Sultan.
Wang Yi said, the China-Tajikistan comprehensive strategic partnership has always maintained a sound and stable momentum of development under the promotion of President Xi Jinping and President Emomali Rahmon.
The two countries have taken the lead in building a development community and a security community, and jointly implemented a large number of major cooperation projects that have yielded good results and improved people's well-being.
The two sides have always trusted and supported each other in international and regional affairs, constantly injecting new connotations into bilateral relations.
China is ready to work with Tajikistan to take the opportunity of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties and follow through on the important consensus reached by the two heads of state, so as to push bilateral cooperation in various fields to new heights and bring more benefits to the two peoples.
Wang Yi said, the bilateral trade volume grew by more than 100 percent year-on-year in the first quarter of this year, showing strong resilience.
China is ready to constantly explore new areas of cooperation with Tajikistan and help Tajikistan achieve the goals of its four major development strategies of energy, transportation, food and industrialization.
China supports and encourages Chinese enterprises to invest and do business in Tajikistan and better synergize production capacity.
China hopes Tajikistan will improve its business environment.
Ibrohim said, China is a great and friendly close neighbor of Tajikistan.
The two heads of state have established high-level mutual trust, and the Tajikistan-China comprehensive strategic partnership has been advancing steadily.
Since the establishment of diplomatic ties 30 years ago, bilateral cooperation has developed rapidly, and China has become Tajikistan's most important trade and investment partner.
Tajikistan is sincerely grateful for China's assistance in the country's efforts to implement major livelihood projects, upgrade infrastructure and fight the pandemic.
Tajikistan is ready to actively participate in Belt and Road cooperation, and deepen all-round cooperation with China.
Tajikistan will facilitate investments by Chinese enterprises in the country.
The two sides expressed satisfaction with the launch of Luban Workshop in Tajikistan, the first of its kind in Central Asia.
The two sides will strive for early completion of the workshop, so as to deliver early benefits and boost the training of professionals in Tajikistan.
Both sides agreed to speed up the establishment of a traditional medicine center in Tajikistan and continue to strengthen anti-pandemic cooperation.
The two sides will work to scale up trade, and create new cooperation highlights in areas such as new energy, green technology, transportation and communications.
The two sides will continue to leverage the strengths of the joint pandemic prevention and control mechanism at border areas, upgrade and renovate border ports, improve customs clearance efficiency, and ensure the safe and smooth passage of freights.
The two sides spoke highly of building a China-Tajikistan community of shared security and destiny, and expressed readiness to deepen cooperation on security, law enforcement, and counterterrorism, so as to jointly safeguard the peace and stability of the two countries and the region at large.
Ibrohim said, Tajikistan will always be a staunch comrade-in-arms of China, and will work with China to resolutely fight the three forces of terrorism, separatism, and extremism.
Wang Yi said, China will continue to firmly support Tajikistan in safeguarding independence, sovereignty, security and stability, and China is also Tajikistan's most reliable strategic partner.
The two sides also exchanged views on the Afghan issue.