Article Number: 216
Don't ignore the liver in order to live a balanced, fulfilling life
HOW important is the liver?
Next to the heart and the kidney, it is perhaps one of the most important but often least attended-to organs of the body.
According to Johns Hopkins Medicine in Baltimore, Maryland, USA, the liver is the one that regulates the presence of most chemical levels in the blood, and is responsible for excreting bile, the one that carries waste products from the liver.
The liver is known to perform over 500 other vital functions, but it primarily breaks down harmful substances, it said.
Once these injurious substances are finally broken down, the by-products are then excreted into the bile or blood and in turn, the bile by-products go to the intestine and are defecated from the body in the form of feces or human waste, while the by-products are filtered by the kidneys leave the body in urine form.
Despite these seemingly impressive functions, the liver is still often overlooked compared to its more glamorous counterpart organs in the body.
The liver is considered to be one of the most crucial organs and is the only one that regenerates and regrows to its normal size even if 90 percent of it has already been removed.
Complications of liver disease In an article on ScienceDirect.com titled 'Global burden of liver disease: 2023 update,' it noted that liver disease is responsible for the deaths of two million people per year, and the cause of death of one out of every 25 deaths globally.
'Deaths are largely attributable to complications of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma (liver cancer), with acute hepatitis accounting for a smaller proportion of deaths.
The most common causes of cirrhosis worldwide are related to viral hepatitis, alcohol, and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease,' the article showed.
Data from the Philippine Statistics Authority (PSA) showed that liver disease is the cause of death of 27.3 cases per 1,000 deaths in the country in 2020, with liver cirrhosis responsible for 31.8 percent of liver-related deaths in the country, with malignant disease of the liver at 35.8 percent, and viral hepatitis at 5.3 percent.
'These statistics emphasize the pressing need for proactive interventions, including enhanced public health awareness, access to screening and treatment services, and preventive measures to mitigate the burden of liver-related diseases and reduce associated mortality rates in the country,' according to Annalyn Lanzaga, in-house pharmacist at LAC (Leader in Antioxidative Control), a supplement provider in the Philippines, in an email interview with the BusinessMirror.
Lack of awareness WHEN asked if the number of liver-related deaths is due to lack of awareness or if people don't seem to care, Evelyn Teo, Chief Marketing Officer at LAC Global, said a combination of different factors make liver health a bit under the radar.
'Liver disease is labeled as a silent killer.
Unlike the heart or lungs, the liver doesn't have any immediate, noticeable signs of trouble so the liver is not really a priority.
But by the time symptoms arise, the damage might already be significant,' Teo said.
She said that another factor is lack of education, that people have not fully grasped the value of the liver's functions and its crucial role in maintaining overall health.
'Essentially, it's not necessarily just about excessive alcohol consumption but it's about continuously adopting unhealthy habits like poor diet, a stressful lifestyle, lack of exercise, among others.'
Lanzaga, for her part, said financial reasons may be a constraint in having their livers checked since it is not a priority for them, and symptoms don't manifest early until it becomes severe.
'Healthcare is still not very accessible to a lot of Filipinos especially to those from low-income families so this could prevent them from getting regular check-ups.
Liver screening is also not offered upfront when you go to your regular check-ups unlike other tests.
Teo countered the misconception that those prone to liver diseases are only those who eat fatty foods and drink alcohol excessively.
'People might be surprised to learn that people who do maintain a healthy diet, regularly exercise and do not drink or smoke, are also susceptible to this.
We hope that people become aware that building healthy habits is not limited to these but more on lifestyle changes such as managing stress levels, getting better quality sleep, and not skipping meals will make an impact on liver health.'
Lifestyle changes Lanzaga echoed Teo's observations, saying that fatty liver symptoms don't usually manifest in its early stages so people may be a bit lax when it comes to their liver health.
Experts have said that aside from necessary tests, self-care like healthy eating and lifestyle changes can be the best defense against liver disease.
'Making healthier choices will benefit you and your liver in the long run like getting better quality sleep, managing stress, incorporating more fruits and vegetables into your meals, etc.
These are also modifiable changes that we can make in our everyday lives and being consistent and building on these habits is the key to maintaining this lifestyle.
Most would think that only those with too much alcohol would have concern with their liver health but in fact sleep quality, high fat diet, sugar laden food and poor stress management can affect one's liver health,' Lanzaga added.
TEO believes that nutrition education plays a critical role in empowering Filipinos to make informed choices about dietary and supplemental support, not only for their liver health, but also for their overall well-being.
'That is why LAC, which has 47 physical stores in the Philippines and 250 globally, is actively helping consumers understand their unique nutritional requirements and choose the right supplements in-store.'
LAC's 'Nutrition for Life' campaign, Teo said, underscores the importance of holistic wellness, and that the company's commitment encompasses physical, mental and emotional well-being as this extends to one's liver health.
The LAC 'Activated Liver Protector,' she said, is specifically formulated to support liver health by providing antioxidant protection, detoxification support, and overall liver function enhancement, which is a blend of traditional Chinese medicinal herbs.
'By providing convenient, high-quality supplements that address various aspects of well-being, alongside advocating for proactive health measures and promoting holistic approaches to wellness, LAC empowers every Filipino to lead a balanced and fulfilling life.'