Article Number: 495
China: Wang Yi Meets with Uzbek Acting Foreign Minister Vladimir Norov
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Uzbek Acting Foreign Minister Vladimir Norov on the sidelines of the third "China+Central Asia" (C+C5) Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Nur-Sultan.
Wang Yi said, President Xi Jinping and President Shavkat Mirziyoyev have established high-level mutual trust and profound friendship, providing important strategic guidance for the development of bilateral relations.
China is ready to work with Uzbekistan to take the opportunity of the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties and the 10th anniversary of the establishment of a strategic partnership to seek greater synergy between the two countries' development strategies, enhance mutual understanding and support, deepen the experience-sharing on state governance, and make joint efforts to constantly elevate bilateral relations to new heights.
Wang Yi said, China-Uzbekistan cooperation in various fields is progressing smoothly.
In the first quarter of this year, bilateral trade volume has increased substantially, showing broad potential.
More highly marketable Uzbek products are welcome to enter the Chinese market, and China encourages Chinese enterprises to invest and do business in Uzbekistan, so as to help the country accelerate industrialization and enhance its capacity for self-driven development.
The two sides should ensure sound implementation of the five-year plan for inter-governmental economic, trade and investment cooperation, give full play to the role of the working group on investment cooperation, and select a batch of major cooperation projects with strategic significance.
Efforts should be made to strengthen cooperation in traditional energy, jointly ensure the safe and stable operation of the China-Central Asia natural gas pipeline, and expand cooperation in civilian nuclear energy, solar energy and wind energy, and other new energy sources.
Norov said, this year is of great significance for Uzbekistan-China relations.
Thanks to the profound friendship and guidance of the two heads of state, bilateral relations have reached an unprecedented high level.
Uzbekistan cherishes the friendship between the two countries and will firmly adhere to the one-China principle, strengthen Belt and Road cooperation, advance mutually beneficial cooperation in economy, trade, investment, energy, production capacity, green agriculture and other fields, and work for setting a model of state-to-state relations.
The two sides will improve connectivity, facilitate customs clearance, strengthen cooperation on road-rail combined transport, and explore ways to speed up the diversified construction of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan Railway and other transportation channels.
The two sides will ensure sound implementation of the memorandum of understanding on poverty alleviation cooperation, and share development experience; advance all-round cooperation on vaccines, support the establishment of a regional vaccine research and development center in Uzbekistan, and deepen cooperation on traditional Chinese medicine and telemedicine; strengthen cooperation in people-to-people and cultural affairs and tourism, as well as at sub-national levels; step up joint efforts to build a China-Central Asia Agricultural Cooperation Center.
The two sides will deepen cooperation in combating three forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism, and in counter-terrorism, defense and cyber security, among others.
The two sides spoke highly of the role of the C+C5 cooperation mechanism.
Norov appreciated China's important and constructive role in regional cooperation, saying that the development and revitalization of Central Asia are closely related to China, and Uzbekistan will actively participate in and push for positive outcomes of the third C+C5 Foreign Ministers' meeting.
The two sides will strengthen communication and coordination in the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO).
Wang Yi said, China supports Uzbekistan in hosting the SCO Samarkand Summit successfully.
The two sides also exchanged views on the Afghan issue.
Norov spoke highly of China's important role in Afghanistan's reconstruction and expressed readiness to jointly promote harmony, stability, peace and development in Afghanistan.