Article Number: 47
Shanghai to Continue Strict Covid-19 Measures Despite Drop in Cases; New action plan calls for more mass testing and quarantine beds, treatment with traditional Chinese medicine
Cao, Li.
HONG KONG—Shanghai health authorities unveiled an aggressive new Covid-19 containment plan despite continued reductions in new cases, indicating China's financial capital is still far from declaring victory over the country's worst outbreak since the start of the pandemic.
According to a nine-point action plan announced just before midnight on Thursday, Shanghai will add more quarantine hospital beds and transfer all Covid-19-positive patients as well as their close contacts to quarantine centers.
The plan called for both Covid-19 patients and close contacts to be treated with traditional Chinese medicine, without specifying other treatments.
In certain instances, patients will be allowed to isolate at home, though only on a temporary basis, according to the plan, which also called for the maintenance of strict controls on movement, mass testing and contact tracing.
Shanghai recorded just over 17,500 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday, down from almost 18,500 the day before.
It was the eighth drop in daily cases since April 13, when new infections reached a peak of nearly 28,000.
Since March 1, the city has recorded roughly 450,000 Covid-19 cases and 36 deaths, including 11 on Thursday.
In an interview with state media posted online Friday, Shanghai's government officials said the government was focused on ensuring that all new infections are contained within quarantined areas and facilities.
Once that is achieved, the city will gradually loosen restrictions on movement and activity neighborhood by neighborhood, it said.
"Our goal is to achieve zero Covid at the community level as soon as possible," the government officials said, without providing a timeline.
The announcement of the new action plan comes after falling case counts and loosening of restrictions in some communities had raised hopes among some residents and businesses that Shanghai was turning a corner in its battle against the outbreak.
The lockdown in Shanghai, now in its fourth week, has caused panic among residents over access to food and other necessities.
It has also badly disrupted business and slowed transport of goods into the city, one of China's biggest manufacturing and export hubs, to a trickle.
The city's insistence on sending all Covid-19-positive patients to quarantine centers regardless of the severity of their symptoms has drawn criticism from public health experts, many of whom say the fast-spreading but milder Omicron variant of the virus is best fought by allowing patients to isolate at home unless they have severe symptoms.
China's Vice Premier Sun Chunlan visited a district-level disease control center, a hospital that treats Covid-19 patients and a quarantine center in Shanghai on Wednesday and Thursday, according to state media.
She reiterated the zero-Covid policy , urging the city to eradicate infections at community level "with greater determination and greater strength."
Natasha Khan and Reddy Zhao contributed to this article.
Write to Cao Li at li.cao@wsj.com
Shanghai to Continue Strict Covid-19 Measures Despite Drop in Cases
Credit: By Cao Li