Article Number: 14
Comstech linking Chinese institutions with the OIC World: Prof. Choudhary
Coordinator General COMSTECH, Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary said that COMSTECH has started capacity building programs with Chinese institutions to link OIC world with the Peoples Republic of China.
He was briefing Chinese media personnel here at the COMSTECH, says a Press release.
Prof. Choudhary informed that the one of the root causes of lagging behind in SandT is absence of trained researchers and technical personnel's in various fields of science and technology with emphasis on health.
To meet this challenge, the Hunan University of Chinese Medicine and OIC-COMSTECH have joined hands to offer technicians training on various medical and STEM fields for SandT capacity building.
Prof. Choudhary informed that the first phase of this program has two components, technician training program, and Post-Doc study at the Hunan University.
He further informed that COMSTECH is in the process of initiating similar programs with Ningbo University and Xinjiang Medical University.
COMSTECH has already established a joint program with Huawei Technologies China in the field of cybersecurity.
Program Manager COMSTECH, Khazima Muazim briefed the audience in detail on the COMSTECH - Hunan University of Chinese Medicine Joint SandT Cooperation.
She said that the Hunan University of Chinese Medicine and OIC-COMSTECH have joined hands to offer technicians training on various medical and STEM fields for SandT capacity building.
She informed that 13 scholars with diverse educational and professional background from Sudan, Indonesia, Pakistan, Cameron, Egypt, Kazakhstan and Bangladesh have been selected under this program.
She informed that special preference has been given to female candidates.
She said that the training program is set to begin in May which encompasses training on NMR, MRI and training in Ethno medicine Innovation and traditional Chinese medicine.
Technical visits will also be part of this training program, she said.