Article Number: 25
China: List of Practical Cooperation Deliverables of The Third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation
I.
Bilateral Cooperation Documents
The Chinese government signed the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) on Belt and Road Cooperation with the government of Honduras, signed cooperation plans or action plans of BRI with the governments of Argentina, Mauritania, Georgia and Serbia, and will sign the Plan of Joint Promotion of BRI with the government of Egypt.
The Communist Party of China (CPC) signed the Action Plan on Building a Community with a Shared Future (2024-2028) with the Lao People's Revolutionary Party.
The Chinese government signed the Action Plan (2024-2028) on Building a China-Cambodia Community with a Shared Future in the New Era with the government of Cambodia.
The Chinese government signed the Belt and Road Cooperation Priority Projects List (the Second Round) with the government of Hungary.
The Chinese government signed the MOU for Strengthening the Cooperation on China-EU Trains Passing via Iran with the government of Iran, and signed the MOU for Deepening the Cooperation of China-EU Trains Trans-Caspian Transport Lines with the government of Kazakhstan.
The Chinese government signed the Agreement on Extending the Validity of the MOU on Establishing a Mechanism for Strategic Dialogue for Economic Cooperation and Coordination between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of the Argentine Republic, and will sign the Treaty for Developing China-EU Trains Trans-Caspian Transport lines with the government of Kazakhstan.
The Chinese government signed the cooperation documents on science, technology and innovation with the governments of Honduras and Indonesia, and will sign the Agreement on Scientific and Technological Cooperation with the government of the United Arab Emirates.
The Chinese government signed the international road transport agreements with the governments of Kazakhstan and Mongolia, and signed the Five-year Action Plan (2023-2027) for Highway Technical Cooperation with the government of Pakistan.
The Chinese government signed the Free Trade Agreement and the Early Harvest Arrangement of the Free Trade Agreement with the government of Nicaragua, signed free trade agreements with the governments of Ecuador and Serbia, will sign the Agreement on Trade in Services and Investment with the government of Belarus, and signed the MOU on Investment Cooperation in Green Development and the MOU on Investment Cooperation in the Digital Economy with the government of Turkmenistan.
The Chinese government signed the Agreement on Economic and Technical Cooperation with the government of Kazakhstan, and signed the MOU on Renewable Energy Cooperation with the government of Uzbekistan.
The National Commission of Supervision of China signed MOUs on Cooperation in the field of Combating and Preventing Corruption with the Office of the Comptroller-General of Cuba, the Administrative Control Authority of Egypt, the Anti-Corruption Unit of Cambodia, the Corruption Eradication Commission of Indonesia and the Anti-corruption Commission of Malaysia.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China signed the MOU on Jointly Accelerating the Formulation of the Cooperation Plan on the BRI with the Ministry of Finance and National Planning of Zambia, signed the MOU on Establishing an Expert Exchange Mechanism within the Framework of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) with the Ministry of Planning, Development and Special Initiatives of Pakistan, and signed the MOU on Exchange and Cooperation in the Field of Economic Development Policy with the Ministry of Economy of Serbia.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China signed the MOU on Jointly Promoting the Third Round of Key Projects in China-Cambodia Production Capacity and Investment Cooperation with the Council for the Development of Cambodia, and signed the 2023-2025 Cooperation Plan on Key Areas with the Ministry of Development of Greece.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China signed documents on promoting industrial investment cooperation with the Ministry of Economy of Azerbaijan, the Ministry of People's Power of Economy, Finance and Foreign Trade of Venezuela, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade of Hungary, and will sign relevant documents with the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development of Serbia and the relevant department of Chile.
The Ministry of Science and Technology of China will sign the MOU on Bilateral Cooperation under the Framework of China-LAC Sustainable Food Innovation Center with the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation of Argentina.
The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China signed cooperation documents on digital and information communications with the Ministry of Post and Telecommunication of Algeria, the Ministry of Communication Technologies of Tunisia, the Ministry of Telecommunications and Information Technology of Iran and the Ministry of Information and Communications Technology of the Philippines, and will sign relevant documents with the Ministry of Communication, Telecommunications and Digital Economy of Senegal and the Ministry of Digital Technology of Uzbekistan.
The Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of China signed the MOU on cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Development of Hungary, and the MOU on Industrial Cooperation with the Ministry of Industry of Indonesia.
The Ministry of Ecology and Environment of China signed cooperation documents on environmental protection, sustainable development and responding to climate change with the Department of Environment of Iran, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Protection of Belarus and the Ministry of Planning, Development and Special Initiatives of Pakistan.
The Ministry of Transport of China signed the MOU on Deepening International Road Transport Cooperation with the Ministry of Transport of Tajikistan, signed the MOU on Future Mobility Cooperation with the Ministry of Transport of Singapore, and signed the Protocol on Implementation on the International Road Transport Agreement between the Government of the People's Republic of China and the Government of Mongolia with the Ministry of Road and Transport Development of Mongolia.
The Ministry of Commerce of China signed MOUs on Establishing the Unimpeded Trade Work Group with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, International Trade and Worship of Argentina and the Ministry of Development, Industry and Trade of Nicaragua, signed the MOU on the Establishment of the Investment and Economic Cooperation Working Group with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Uruguay, signed the MOU on Cooperation in the Field of Free Zones and Economic Zones with Kuwait Direct Investment Promotion Authority, and signed the MOU on Trade Promotion Cooperation with Ministry of Industry, Mine and Trade of Iran.
The Ministry of Commerce of China signed MOUs on cooperation on electronic commerce with the Department of Trade and Industry of the Philippines and the Coordinating Ministry for Economic Affairs of Indonesia, signed the MOU on Deepening Blue Economy Cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and National Beautification, Blue and Green Economy of Barbados, signed the MOU on Promoting Investment Cooperation in Green Development with the Council for the Development of Cambodia, and signed the Framework Agreement on Promoting Investment Cooperation in Green Energy Power with the Ministry in the Presidency for Electricity of the Government of South Africa.
The Ministry of Commerce of China signed the MOU to Announce the Substantive Conclusion of the Subsequent Negotiations on the Upgrade of China-Singapore Free Trade Agreement with the Ministry of Trade and Industry of Singapore, signed the MOU on Launching the Negotiations for China-Serbia Free Trade Agreement with the Ministry of Internal and Foreign Trade of Serbia, and signed the MOU on Conclusion of the Majority Text and Initiating Market Access Negotiation of Agreement on Trade in Services and Investments between the People's Republic of China and the Republic of Belarus with the Ministry of Economy of Belarus.
The People's Bank of China signed the MOU on Establishing RMB Clearing Arrangement with the National Bank of Serbia, signed the MOU on Enhanced Collaboration on CBDC with the Central Bank of the United Arab Emirates, and signed the MOU on Bilateral Financial Cooperation with the Bank Indonesia.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China and Shenzhen Municipal People's Government of Guangdong Province of China signed the MOU Concerning Cooperation on the Planning Knowledge and Experience Sharing for the New Capital of Indonesia with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Investment of Indonesia and Nusantara Capital Authority of Indonesia.
The Ministry of Commerce of China and Fujian Provincial People's Government signed the MOU on Two Countries Twin Parks Cooperation Project with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Investment of Indonesia.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China signed the MOU on Supporting Cross-Border Financing by Chinese Enterprises and Promoting the Development of the Hong Kong Bond Market with Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
The National Health Commission of China signed MOUs on health cooperation with the Ministry of Health of Saudi Arabia and the Ministry of Health of Oman, and will sign relevant documents with the Ministry of Health of Mongolia, the Ministry of Health of Laos and the Ministry of Health of Cambodia.
The National Energy Administration of China signed cooperation documents with the Ministry of Energy of Kazakhstan and the Ministry of Energy of Azerbaijan, and signed the MOU on renewable energy cooperation with the Ministry of Energy and Mines of Cuba.
The State Administration for Market Regulation of China will sign the MOU on Competition Cooperation with the Superintendence for the Promotion and Protection of Free Competition of Venezuela.
The Standardization Administration of China signed the MOU on cooperation with the Kazakhstan Institute of Standardization and Metrology.
The National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine of China signed the Plan of Cooperation (2023-2027) in the Area of Traditional Chinese Medicine with the Ministry of Health of Singapore.
The China Media Group will sign cooperation documents with the official media organizations of Egypt, Pakistan, Myanmar and other Belt and Road Partner Countries.
The China Export & Credit Insurance Corporation signed MOUs on cooperation with the government of Serbia, PT PLN(PERSERO), JSC Asaka Bank of Uzbekistan and JSC Development Bank of Kazakhstan.
The Bank of China signed the MOU on Digital Currency Cooperation with the First Abu Dhabi Bank PJSC, and the MOU for Global Strategic Cooperation with ACWA Power.
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China will sign the MOU on cooperation with the Ministry for National Economy of Hungary.
Cooperation Documents with International and Regional Organizations
The Chinese government signed the Renewal of the Agreement on Enhancing Belt and Road Intellectual Property Cooperation and the agreement on its amendment and extension with the World Intellectual Property Organization.
The Chinese government will sign the report of mid-term review on the Work Programme on Further Deepening Trade and Economic Cooperation with ASEAN.
The Ministry of Transport of China signed the MOU on Promoting Sustainable Transport for the SDGs with the United Nations.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China signed MOUs on Belt and Road cooperation with International Bamboo and Rattan Organization and Global Energy Interconnection Development and Cooperation Organization.
The State Administration for Market Regulation of China and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization will sign the project document on strengthening the capacity of China's food inspection and testing bodies to improve trust for trade under the framework of the Belt and Road.
The Ministry of Ecology and Environment of China and the China Meteorological Administration signed the Agreement on Cooperation in Support of the United Nations Early Warnings for All Initiative with the World Meteorological Organization.
The Ministry of Water Resources of China, the Standardization Administration of China and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization will sign the MOU on Cooperation in Promoting Rural Sustainable Development based on Small Hydro-power International Standards.
The Standardization Administration of China signed the MOU for Cooperation with African Electrotechnical Standardization Commission.
The Export-Import Bank of China signed the MOU with the United Nations Industrial Development Organization.
The World Tourism Cities Federation (WTCF) signed the MOU on cooperation with the Pacific Asia Travel Association (PATA).
Bilateral Cooperation Platforms and Projects or Mechanisms Launched by the Chinese Side
Established the Corporate Integrity and Compliance Evaluation System for the BRI.
Established the Mechanism of the China-Central Asian Transport Ministers' Meeting.
To establish the China-Cambodia Railway Cooperation Mechanism.
Launched the China Railway Express Portal website.
Established the E-Commerce Cooperation Dialogue between China and Central Asian Countries.
Establishing the Belt and Road Economic and Financial Capacity Building Platform, and the Green Investment Principles for the Belt and Road regional chapter for Africa and ASEAN.
To establish the China-Central Asia Investment and Financing Platform, the Belt and Road Joint Investment Platform with Hong Kong Monetary Authority, and the Cooperative Framework of Joint Investment with Indonesia Investment Authority.
To establish the Belt and Road Low Carbon Service Partnership.
To launch the Central Asia Regional Green Technology Development Action Plan.
To establish the China-ASEAN Mangrove Conservation Partnership.
Established the China-Arab International Research Center for Drought, Desertification and Land Degradation.
To launch the Belt and Road Special Cooperation Program for Sustainable Development Technology, the Science Action Plan for Sustainable Development, the Belt and Road Special Cooperation Program for Poverty Alleviation through Science and Technology, and the Belt and Road Special Cooperation Program for Spatial Information through Science and Technology.
To launch the Belt and Road Comprehensive Legal Service Platform and the Belt and Road Legal Service Talent Training Program.
To develop a capacity-building center for legal talents in domestic, foreign and international law.
Established the China-Africa International Commercial Mediation Center.
To launch the China Documentary Festival Belt and Road International Screening, release the Vision for a Shared Future Global Short Video Showcase, and establish the News Hotline.
To launch the Belt and Road Special Cooperation Program for Innovation and Entrepreneurship and the Belt and Road Teacher Development Initiative.
To organize the Belt and Road Teenager Maker Camp and Teacher Workshop.
Held the 17th meeting of China-Venezuela Joint High-Level Meeting, and China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) 12th Special Joint Cooperation Committee Meeting and Special Joint Cooperation Committee Meeting on 10th Anniversary of CPEC.
Held the 2nd China-Laos Belt and Road Cooperation Forum, the 3rd China-Thailand Think-Tank Forum Ten Years of the Belt and Road: China-Thailand Partnership for Sustainable Development, and the program China and Argentina: Encounter between cultures.
To establish the Platform for Overseas Business Sustainable Development and the Going Global Comprehensive Service Center for Chinese Enterprises.
The International Commercial Dispute Prevention and Settlement Organization will release the Investor-State Arbitration Rules.
To establish the Belt and Road High-Quality Development Promotion Association of the Yangtze River Delta, to build the Belt and Road International Production Capacity Cooperation Demonstration Zone in Anhui Province, China, and conducted Shenzhen and Singapore Smart City Cooperation.
To establish the Belt and Road International Center for Geoscience Education and Training and the Meteorological Training Centre for participating countries of BRI.
Held the China-ASEAN Education Cooperation Week.
To establish a Promotion Platform for Culture Exchange and Educational Cooperation with Arab States participating in BRI.
Chongqing Municipal People's Government will carry out the cooperation project on music education with Moscow Tchaikovsky Conservatory.
To establish the China-Pakistan Belt and Road Joint Laboratory on Small Hydropower Technology, the China-Indonesia Joint Laboratory for Marine Sciences and the China-Belarus International Innovation Center.
Institutional Schemes Proposed by the Chinese Side
The China Development Bank will set up a RMB350 billion financing window for Belt and Road cooperation.
The Export-Import Bank of China will set up a RMB350 billion financing window for Belt and Road cooperation.
An additional RMB80 billion will be injected into the Silk Road Fund to support BRI projects on the basis of market and commercial principles.
Cooperation Projects
The Chinese government signed the MOU on Cooperation in Mubarak Al-Kabeer Port Project with the Kuwait government, and signed the cooperation documents on Joint Construction of China Basa-Viet Nam Bat Xat Red River Boundary River Road Bridge with the government of Viet Nam.
The Chinese government will sign the exchange of letters for the Addis Ababa - Djibouti Railway Materials Project with the government of Ethiopia, and the exchange of letters on the China-Aid Project of Wind Power Plants with the government of Uzbekistan.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China will sign the MOU on Formulating the Cooperation Programs for Development along the China-Laos Railway with the Ministry of Planning and Investment of Laos.
The China Development Bank as Lender will sign the RMB Revolving Credit Facility Agreement with Malayan Banking Berhad as Borrower, the Facility Agreement with Central Bank of Egypt as Borrower, the Term Facility Agreement with BANK BBVA PERÚ as Borrower, the Term Facility Agreement with African Export-Import Bank as Borrower, and the Term Facility Agreement with Bank Misr as Borrower.
To complete the first disbursement of the Loan for Credit Line of Senegal (improvement of the Niayes Road and improving the fluidity of roads in the Dakar region).
The Export-Import Bank of China signed the RMB Term Loan Agreement with Saudi National Bank, the USD Term Loan Agreement with Africa Finance Corporation, the Cooperation Framework Agreement with Indonesia Investment Authority and the Loan agreements with Cambodia for road, bridge and reservoir projects.
The Export-Import Bank of China signed the MOU between Credit Guarantee and Investment Facility and China-ASEAN Investment Cooperation Fund II, and is promoting China-ASEAN Investment Cooperation Fund II to make equity investment in Pertamina Geothermal Energy Project.
Silk Road Fund participates in the Africa Infrastructure Investment Fund IV of Old Mutual in South Africa and the Highland Capital Central Asia Fund II in Kyrgyzstan.
The China International Development Cooperation Agency and National Forestry and Grassland Administration signed the Framework Agreement on supporting the one billion trees national movement of Mongolia and cooperation between China and Mongolia on combating desertification with the Ministry of Economy and Development and the Forestry Agency of Mongolia.
Assisting Egypt to issue the first panda bond from African countries.
The Bank of China issued the world's first BRI partner themed green notes.
The Industrial and Commercial Bank of China issued the 2023 Green Bond issuance in CIBM (RMB 10 billion), issued the Multi-currency Carbon Neutrality themed overseas green bonds, and participated in the Project of Abu Dhabi Holding Group Green Loan Facility (USD 2.5 billion).
Supported the project finance for Malaysia East Coast Rail Link Project.
Building the Nigerian Kaduna-Kano Railway Project in Nigeria, and the Gantsmod-Gashuunsukhait Port Cross-Border Railway Project in Mongolia.
To build the Marine Facilities for King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services Project in Saudi Arabia.
Supported the project finance for the Chancay Port Project in Peru.
To sign the Facility Agreement of Nairobi Expressway Project in Kenya, the Loan Agreement on the Construction of Access to Quito from the Oriental Valleys and Construction of Guayasamin Bridge in Ecuador, and signed the Loan Agreement on the Guyana East Coast Demerara Road Project Phase II.
To build the Elevated Expressway Project and the Bypass Expressway Project in Dhaka, Bangladesh, and the State Road of 1b Category No.27 Loznica-Valjevo-Lazarevac, Section Iverak-Lajkovac (Intersection on the Highway E-763 Belgrade-Pozega) in Serbia.
Carrying out the operation and maintenance services for Metro Rail Transit System on the Orange Line in Lahore (ALL TOWN to DERA GUJRAN) in Pakistan.
Building the China-aid New Gwadar International Airport Project in Pakistan and the Siem Reap Angkor International Airport on BOT Scheme in Cambodia.
Signed the Loan Agreement on the Trinidad and Tobago New Industrial Park at Phoenix Park Project.
Invested in the Zambia Jiangxi Economic Cooperation Zone Project.
To invest in the Lygend Indonesia OBI Industrial Park, build the Hunan-Laos One Road, Two Zones Project and the China-Philippines Demonstration Park for economic and trade innovation and development.
Supporting the project finance for Malaysia-China Kuantan Industrial Logistic Park.
To build the Comprehensive Service Cooperation Zone of East Africa Commercial & Logistics Industrial Park in Tanzania and an overseas warehouse for China-Europe Train Express in Mongolia.
Promoting strategic cooperation projects of logistics channels and international trade with Kyrgyzstan, building the Aktau Port Container Hub Project in Kazakhstan, and realized the full coverage of Green Channel for rapid customs clearance of agricultural and sideline products at road ports along the border with Central Asian countries.
To implement the Air Silk Road China-Malaysia Freight Hub Project, and the China-ASEAN (Hainan) Demonstration Initiative on Cruise Connectivity.
Supporting the project finance for Bash 500MW and Dzhankeldy 500MW Wind Power Generation Project, and Tashkent 200MW Solar PV and 500MWh Battery Energy Storage System Project in Uzbekistan.
Supporting the project finance for Manah II Photovoltaic Independent Power Project in Oman, and the project finance for Al Dhafra PV2 Solar Power Plant Project in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.
To build 750MW Solar Power Plant Project in Iraq, Ratesti 154MW Solar Power Plant Project in Romania, and Resko 51 MW Solar Power Plant Project in Poland.
To sign the Loan Agreement on the 25MW Photovoltaic Solar Power Plant with 5MW Storage in Kaya, Burkina Faso.
To sign the Technical Agreement of the Niger River Training and Flood Control Scheme-Comprehensive Planning of Niger River Basin in Nigeria and Feasibility Study of the Priority Engineering Works.
Signed the Loan Agreement on the Tonle Bassac Bridge Project (Chak Angrae Kraom-Praek Pra) in Cambodia, the Loan Agreement on the Jenelata Dam Project in Indonesia, and the Loan Agreement on the Ranomafana Hydropower Plant Project in Madagascar.
To sign the Loan Agreement on the Construction of Bypass around Novisad with the Bridge over Danube River in Serbia, and the Loan Agreement on the Construction of Three Priority Bridges Crossing Pasig-Marikina River and Manggahan Floodway Bridges in the Philippines.
Implementing the Interoperable QR Code Cooperation Project with Sri Lanka and Malaysia.
Building the National Broadband Infrastructure Project in Solomon Islands.
To sign the Loan Agreement on the Rural Grid Extension Project Phase VIII in Cambodia, and support the project finance for Fixed Network ALL-IP Modernization Project in Serbia, and Huawei Exported Telkom FY23 Network Construction Project in South Africa.
To sign the cooperation agreements on investment in Simandou Iron Ore Project in Guinea.
Investing in the PhaseProject of the Kamoya Copper-Cobalt Mine in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Colluli Potash Mining Project in Eritrea, the Boguty Tungsten Mine Project in Kazakhstan, and the Tres Quebradas Salar Project and the Cauchari-Olaroz lithium Salt Lake Development Project in Argentina.
Investing in the Fujian Gulei 1.5MMTA Ethylene and Downstream Deep Processing Complex Project (SABIC FUJIAN Gulei Ethylene Project).
Investing in the Nickel-Cobalt Hydroxide Hydrometallurgical Project with an Annual Output of 120,000T Nickel Metal and 15,000T Cobalt Metal, the Project with an Annual Output of 50,000T of Lithium Hydroxide and 10,000T of Lithium Carbonate, and the Project of Nickel Metal Production Line with an Annual Output of 126,000T and supporting facilities in Indonesia.
To support a series of financing projects for Singapore PCTCs.
To build an Auto Center in Hulhumale, Maldives, and the Service Long March Tyres (Pvt) Limited Phase II in Pakistan.
The China Investment Corporation invested to a Renwable fuel company in South East Asia, and a Global fruit postharvest tech company headquartered in South Africa.
Acquiring Partial Share of Halcyon Agri Corporation Limited in Singapore, and implementing the Project of Contract Farming in Tanzania.
To implement the projects for public well-being and infrastructure in Ghana and Kenya and the trade supply chain project in Angola and other African countries, and the project of Keat Hong Grange-N8C12 (987Dus) in Singapore.
To build the Project of the Red Sea Utility Assets and Infrastructure in Saudi Arabia, and the Project to Strengthen Ecosystem Resilience in the Ferlo Region, Senegal.
Signed the Loan Agreement on Uzbekistan Olympic Village Project Lot 1 & Lot 2, and the Loan Agreement on the Rajshahi WASA Surface Water Treatment Plant Project in Bangladesh.
To invest in the power battery manufacturing project in Hungary and solar module and battery production line projects in Viet Nam.
Implementing the Project of expanding the Angel Yeast (Egypt) annual output of yeast products.
People's Livelihood and People-to-people Connectivity Projects
China will carry out 1,000 small-scale livelihood assistance projects.
The Chinese government will provide training sessions and seminars for 20,000 foreign officials and technical personnel and in-service education programs for 500 persons in China, continue to implement the Silk Roads Youth Research Grant, and launch the Belt and Road Youth Elite Program and the Belt and Road Youth Development Program.
To launch the BRI Green Talent Program, the Africa Solar Belt Program of South-South Cooperation on Climate Change, and hold the training on South-South Cooperation for Addressing Climate Change.
Implementing the Vista of the Green Silk Road international communication programme.
To hold an anti-corruption seminar for Belt and Road countries.
Sponsored the second session of Research and Fellowship Program of the Belt and Road Legal Cooperation and will hold its third session.
To establish the Capacity-Building Alliance for Sustainable Investment.
Held the Belt and Road Banking Regulatory Seminar.
Released the Featured and Excellent international cooperation projects in conformity assessment field.
To set up Belt and Road People-to-People Connectivity Charitable Fund and implement Silk Road People-to-People Connectivity Initiative.
Implementing the China Merchants C-Blue Love Village in Sri Lanka and relevant countries, and the Panda Pack Project in Nepal, Ethiopia, Myanmar, Cambodia, Laos, Burundi and relevant countries.
Implementing WFAS the Belt and Road Tour of Acupuncture-Moxibustion in Ethiopia, the Mobile Interventional Operation Module in Laos, the Lifeline Express International Bright Journey in Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan, the Amity Living Water Project in Nepal, and the China-ASEAN Heart-to-Heart Program devoted to cure children with congenital heart disease.
The National Development and Reform Commission of China will carry out the cooperation on capacity building for Africa with the African Union, jointly implement the BRI economic reform and transformation cooperation project with the Zimbabwean side, implement the vocational training project on industrial sector and build the base for conservation, research and innovation of medicinal plants with the Indonesian side.
The State Taxation Administration of China released the Belt and Road Tax Administration Capacity Enhancement Group Curriculum and will provide training opportunities for 10,000 tax officials in the coming 5 years.
Launched the Lancang-Mekong Sweet Spring Project, carried out the pilot cooperation with relevant countries in the field of water supply safety technology in the rural areas, and to build a rubber dam over the Mohananda River in Bangladesh.
To establish the Ocean Forecasting System for Southeast Asia, host the China-Island Countries Forum on Ocean Cooperation and jointly launch the China-Island Countries Marine Disaster Risk Reduction Cooperation Plan.
Handed over the certificates of the Gwadar Seawater Desalination Project to Pakistan and the Project of Satellite Assembly, Integration and Testing Center to Egypt, and signed the exchange of letters on the China-Aid Project of National Data Center with Serbia.
Building the Kenol-Sagana-Marua Highway Improvement Project: Lot 2-Dualling of Sagana-Marua (A2) Road in Kenya.
To sign the exchange of letters on the China-Aid Project of refined oil with Laos, announced the approval of the China-Aid Project of the Cambodia King Works Brigade.
Handed over the certificates of the Emergency Food Assistance Project to Mozambique, Chad, Lesotho, Zimbabwe and Mali.
Announced to provide emergency aid of school uniform materials for 2024 school year to Sri Lanka, handed over the Certificate of the Nasaythong Middle School Project to Laos.
Implemented the Railway Vocational and Technical College Project, the Vientiane Phia Vad Middle School Project and the Drinking Water Project for SANTIPAB High School in Laos.
Operating the Luban Workshop in Kazakhstan continuously.
China will sign the exchange of letters for the Phase Advanced Agricultural Specialist Technical Assistance Project with Ethiopia.
Promoting the Juncao Technology Cooperation with Rwanda, Papua New Guinea, Fiji and relevant BRI countries, the Perennial Rice Technology in Uganda and relevant BRI countries, and implementing the East Asia Poverty Reduction Cooperation Pilot Project in Laos.
Cooperating on Research and Promotion of Agricultural Technologies and Water-saving Irrigation Technologies in Uzbekistan.
Carrying out the Research and Preliminary Work of China-Indonesia Agricultural Machinery Service Center in the Palm Park.
Signed the exchange of letters for the National Surgical Center Project with Mozambique, and the Poliovirus Vaccine Project with Pakistan.
Handed over the Certificate of the Project of Technical Cooperation of Abdulla Mzee Hospital in Zanzibar to Tanzania.
Building the China-Thailand Traditional Chinese Medicine Center and the China-Cambodia Traditional Chinese Medicine Center.
To implement the Cataract Blindness Elimination Project in Senegal.
To launch the Belt and Road News Network (BRNN) Short Video Sharing Program, the Projects of Distribution of TV and Radio Programs in BRI Partner Countries.
Releasing the Project of New Silk Road -Connecting the World.
To hold The Silk Road Bond-a Showcase of Chinese TV Programs and Film, organize the Belt and Road Audio-Visual Program Exchange Activity and the Belt and Road Panda Friends Project.
Launched the Golden Mango TV Channel with Ghana.
The National Cultural Heritage Administration of China to carry out Maritime Silk Road trans-boundary conservation and nomination work, and will hold the Roundtable Conference on Maritime Silk Road Cultural Heritage Conservation, and the exhibition Thriving for a Collaborative World: Belt and Road Cooperation in Cultural Heritage and Archaeology and create the album of Collection of Results in Silk Road Heritage Conservation.
To implement the Project of China-Saudi Joint Archaeological Excavation of Al Serrian and the China-aid Nateshwar Archaeological Park Project in Bangladesh.
The General Administration of Sports of China will hold the Belt and Road Wushu Training Camp and the Belt and Road Women's Chess Masters World Championships in Shaanxi.
To launch the International Projects on Dunhuang Culture, and build a China Cultural Centre in Auckland, New Zealand.
China will organize the Pacific-Indian Ocean Scientific Expeditions, and popularize the Modified Clay technology for HAB mitigation to BRI countries, to protect the security of ocean environment.
Hong Kong SAR Government continues to implement the Belt and Road Scholarship, and will jointly produce the television variety programs with participating countries of BRI and hold the Asia+ Festival.
White Papers and Research Reports
Issued The Belt and Road Initiative: A Key Pillar of the Global Community of Shared Future.
To issue the Vision and Proposed Actions outlined on Pursuing Steady and Sustained Progress in High Quality BRI Cooperation - Prospects for the BRI in the Next Decade.
To issue the Report on Development of the Green Silk Road (2023).
To issue the Report on Development of the Innovative Silk Road.
Issued the China's Trade and Investment Cooperation under the BRI 2013-2023.
To issue the Report on the High-quality Development of the Air Silk Road (2023).
To issue the Report on Building Closer People-to-People Ties under the BRI.
To issue the Report on the International Cooperation and Development of Traditional Chinese Medicine under the BRI.
To issue the Report on Development of China-ASEAN Jointly Building the BRI.
To issue the Report on Development of China-Africa Jointly Building the BRI.
To issue the Report on Development of China-Latin America and the Caribbean Jointly Building the BRI.
Issued the Belt and Road Development Studies - A Synergy Approach to Global Development.
Issued the Debt Sustainability Framework for Market Access Countries of the BRI.
Issued the Trade Index of China and BRI Partner Countries.
To issue A Decade on: Innovation and Practice in Developing Green Belt and Road.
To issue the Research Report on Green Finance Practice of the BRI.
To issue the Research Report on Best Practice of Financial Support Services for the Projects of BRI.
To issue the Blue Book on Emergency Management of the BRI (2023).
To issue the White Paper on the Silk Road Heritage Conservation.
Issued the White Paper on Seaborne Trade Digitalization and the Belt and Road Collaboration Innovation.
To issue the White Paper on Chinese Listed Companies to Build the Belt and Road 2023.
To issue Excellent International Cooperation Projects in Metrology under the BRI.
To issue the Disaster Assessment Report for Belt and Road Countries.
The Innovation and Development Center for the BRI will issue the Report on Innovation Development 2030.
To issue the Report on the Ten-Years Achievements in Connectivity of Standards' Contribution to Jointly Building the BRI.
Issued the BRI Green Development Outlook.
To issue Reports on BRI-related by International Think Tanks.
The Development Research Center of the State Council of China, with the partners of the Silk Road Think Tank Network, will jointly write the Report on Belt and Road Cooperation and the Shared Development.
Issued the Report on the Export-Import Bank of China's Participation in the Belt and Road Cooperation in the Past Ten Years.
Issued the Case Studies of Enterprises' Non-profit Activities for the BRI.
Issued the Report on the Belt and Road Infrastructure Development Index (2023) and the Report on Portuguese-speaking Countries' Infrastructure Development Index and Macao's Achievements in the BRI (2023).