Article Number: 42
World News: Herbal Treatments Sell Out Ahead of Expected Infections
Lin, Liza.
SINGAPORE -- Sales of popular traditional Chinese medicine are surging as Chinese buyers rush to stock up on Covid-19 treatments after China announced it would ease its strict pandemic restrictions.
The scramble to secure supplies has reignited a debate among public-health experts about an aggressive push by China's government to promote traditional remedies in the fight against Covid-19, even as it declines to approve wide use of foreign-made mRNA vaccines.
Prices of Lianhua Qingwen, a herbal preparation endorsed by senior health officials as a prophylactic for Covid, have spiked in recent days, prompting the drug's manufacturer to issue a statement committing to price and supply stability.
Shares of its parent company, Shijiazhuang Yiling Pharmaceutical Co., also hit a record high this week, with investors speculating demand for its products would surge.
On popular e-commerce platforms such as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.'s Taobao, some online merchants have limited the sale of Lianhua Qingwen to two boxes per buyer.
As stocks online and in stores ran low Friday, China's market regulator issued a statement warning retailers against hoarding and driving up the cost of the remedy and other Covid-relief drugs.
Two pharmacies in Beijing visited by The Wall Street Journal on Friday were sold out of Lianhua Qingwen, and a third was limiting purchases.
The emptying shelves are a testament to how heavily China's government has promoted traditional remedies as a defense against Covid-19 -- a campaign that has delighted advocates of traditional Chinese medicine, worried skeptics and drawn warnings from health regulators elsewhere in the world.
"There is some evidence that traditional Chinese medicine does add some benefit to existing Western medicine, but the evidence is not strong and maybe prone to bias," said Paul Hunter, a professor of medicine at the University of East Anglia in England.
"So Western medicine has to be the mainstay."
In July 2020, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration issued a warning letter to a website selling Lianhua Qingwen as a Covid-19 remedy, pointing to rules outlawing the promotion of products that claim to cure, treat or prevent disease without clinical trials as evidence.
Chinese officials have nevertheless continued to say traditional remedies are vital to the fight against the coronavirus.
"Combining Chinese and Western medicine is very important in order to cure the disease, and both medicines should be given equal emphasis," Guo Yanhong, a director at China's National Health Commission, said in a news briefing Wednesday where the relaxation of zero-tolerance Covid measures was announced.
The government's adherence to that message is set to take on added significance in the coming months with China likely to be swamped by a Covid wave that public-health experts say the country is poorly prepared for.
Traditional Chinese medicine has been the subject of debate for decades.
Practitioners of the medicine believe that disease arises from imbalances in the body due to unhealthy factors in one's environment or lifestyle and seek to strengthen the body rather than treat the disease itself, as in Western medicine.
Underlying such treatments is the idea that people have "hot" or "cold" constitutions that make them prone to ailments in parts of the body.
Western science, however, has little data to support claims of the effectiveness of traditional Chinese medicine.
Critics say advocates overlook the toxicity of such cures.
Since coming to power in 2012, Chinese leader Xi Jinping has thrown his personal support behind efforts to promote traditional Chinese medicine globally.
The pandemic accelerated and expanded that promotional effort.
Since the early days of the Covid outbreak, teams of Chinese health experts have traveled to Zimbabwe, Italy, Cambodia and other countries offering treatment plans that mix Chinese vaccines and traditional remedies.
Qianwei Zhang in Beijing contributed to this article.
Credit: By Liza Lin