____________________________________________________________
Debt and real estate key to Beijing's deflation fight: East Asia Forum
: China's global footprint is now so large that uncertainty over the timing of its exit from its third major deflationary episode in the past three decades is one of the most important questions in the world economy.
Prior episodes offer some useful guidance on how to do it.
China's first modern deflation was a spillover from the traumas of the Asian financial crisis in the late 1990s. The second resulted from the excesses of global financial crisis stimulus era.
The current episode is also a hangover, this time from the economic and psychological shock of the zero-COVID-19 era, and from the multi-year contraction of China's property market.
The first episode ended as three forces came together to supercharge Chinese growth.
WTO entry gave the country a powerful external driver.
Internally, efforts to clean up financial and corporate balance sheets after the 1990s bad-loans episode intersected with an urbanisation drive that was hitting warp speed.
And third, China's fixed exchange rate turned from a deflationary to a reflationary force as the US dollar weakened in the mid-2000s.
Demand and supply-side policy measures combined to end the second episode. Supply-side reform took out obsolete capacity in heavily indebted sectors such as coal mining, steel and aluminium, reinstating profitability and righting a dangerous trajectory in balance sheets.
Excess housing stock was cleared by loosening macroprudential restrictions. On this occasion, the Chinese yuan appreciated in real terms, making exit more difficult.
The key lesson is that sustained deflationary pressure requires a dramatic response. Muddling through is a dangerous strategy. The passive approach ignores the procyclical instincts of the average economic decision-maker and the role of confidence in the asset price cycle.
In the current instance, the traditional medicine for an economy dealing with a real estate bust - turning outwards for growth - is particularly fraught, given the protectionist fervour sweeping the West.
Balance sheet issues were central to the contraction in all previous deflationary episodes, and the resolution of these was key. It is here that policymakers could focus.
To this end, today's focus should be local government debt and struggling real estate developers.
In real estate, policy efforts have contributed to slowing, but not stemming, contraction. The idea introduced earlier in 2024 - that state entities purchase property on-market - is novel and is thus consistent with the need for something out of the box to stem the decline.
Ultimately, reflation hangs on revived consumer confidence. While households remain reluctant to spend, policy multipliers will be blunted.
China's deflation comes amid an inflation shock in the West, driving a massive gap in cost competitiveness. Unsurprisingly, China's share of world exports has increased. The areas where Chinese exports are growing the fastest - green power and transport - are psychologically challenging for nations whose self-identity is wrapped up in their traditional pillar industries.
But claims of an unprecedented net export surge are off base.
China's current account narrowed to just 0.25 per cent of world GDP in 2023 - the year it passed Japan as the top motor vehicle exporter - having peaked 15 years ago at 0.65 per cent of world GDP and a 2020s high of 0.4 per cent in 2022.
In addition to the local government and housing policies advocated above, what else should China do to break the deflationary circuit?
A second round of supply-side reforms for legacy industries - including those upstream of real estate such as steel, glass and cement - would help.
Should supply-side reform also be applied to the new growth engines of solar, wind power, EVs and batteries? No. Darwinian competition in the domestic market will do its work in time, and the world needs China to continue leveraging scale in these sectors to drive the cost of green tech lower.
An unapologetically expansive fiscal policy package aimed at households could also be considered.
This idea is now a consensus position among private economists in China.
Letting the yuan find its own level would also help; when your price level is falling, your currency is too strong.
The Chinese government may not have the appetite for this measure, however, given the likely international backlash, and the unknowns associated with relinquishing control at a time of pent-up depreciation pressure.
Huw McKay is Visiting Fellow in the Crawford School of Public Policy at The Australian National University and was formerly chief economist at BHP. This article is part of a series from East Asia Forum (www.eastasiaforum.org).
CREDIT: Huw McKay
: Fixed exchange rates; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Balance sheets; Local government; Economic crisis; International finance; Exports; Deflation
: : Fixed exchange rates Gross Domestic Product--GDP Balance sheets Economic crisis International finance Exports Deflation
: China
: Debt and real estate key to Beijing's deflation fight:   East Asia Forum
: The Australian Financial Review; Melbourne
: 14
: 2024
: Sep 24, 2024
: World
: Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
: Melbourne
/: Australia, Melbourne
: Business And Economics--Public Finance, Taxation
ISSN: 04042018
e-ISSN: 14449900
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3108188164
URL: 
: Copyright (c) 2024 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. www.afr.com. Not available for re-distribution.
: 2024-09-23
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Mushroom of Immortality to Rs 2,000 Papaya: Delhi's grocery store has some crazy finds [New Updates]
: Have you ever wondered what a high-end grocery store looks like? Located in Delhi's Ambience Mall, Food Stories offers a glimpse into the world of upscale shopping. Catering to a select clientele, this store features a range of premium food items from around the globe.
Food blogger Hamza Khan recently gave viewers a tour of this extravagant store, revealing a variety of pricey and unique products. His tour showcased various expensive items, such as a box of papaya cubes priced at Rs 2,000, Italian bread, avocados from different countries, Thai coconuts at Rs 2,000 each, fruit baskets for Rs 7,000, and gourmet salts in various colours.
A notable item at Food Stories is the Reishi mushroom, referred to as the "Mushroom of Immortality." Weighing 5.5 kg and measuring 3 feet in diameter, this mushroom is used in traditional Chinese medicine. The store also sells Reishi dry spore powder, claimed to help with stress reduction and overall well-being.
Khan's video comparing Food Stories to other grocery chains has garnered over 1 million views on Instagram, providing a detailed look at the store's offerings.
: Food; Grocery stores
: : Grocery stores; : 44511 :‎ Supermarkets and Other Grocery Retailers (except Convenience Retailers)
: 44511: Supermarkets and Other Grocery Retailers (except Convenience Retailers)
: Mushroom of Immortality to Rs 2,000 Papaya: Delhi's grocery store has some crazy finds [New Updates ]
: The Economic Times; New Delhi
: 2024
: Sep 11, 2024
: Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--India
ISSN: 09718680
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3102695314
URL: 
: Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Sep 11, 2024
: 2024-09-11
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Asian Buyout Firm to Sell Malaysia Hospital to IHH Healthcare; IHH had been the lead contender to scoop up Penang-based Island Hospital
: Venkat, P R. 
: IHH Healthcare has agreed to buy a Malaysian hospital business, the latest in a series of healthcare deals in the Southeast Asian region.
IHH said it will buy Penang-based Island Hospital for 3.92 billion ringgit, equivalent to $897.5 million, from Comprehensive Care, a unit of Asian buyout firm Affinity Equity Partners. The acquisition will also include land around the hospital.
The Wall Street Journal earlier reported on the possible deal.
IHH—one of Asia's largest private healthcare group—had been the lead contender to scoop up Island Hospital.
"We are immensely proud of what we have achieved with Island Hospital. Island Hospital's evolution into a leading healthcare institution that positively impacts the community, stakeholders, and serves as a beacon of medical excellence in Malaysia and beyond," said Tang Kok Yew, founding chairman and managing partner of Affinity Equity Partners.
Island Hospital and its subsidiaries' net debt as of end June is estimated to be 276.3 million ringgit, IHH said.
With this deal, IHH will be able to increase its presence in Malaysia and contribute to its network of 17 hospitals and 2,822 operational beds. The company operates one of the world's largest healthcare networks, with over 80 hospitals in 10 countries, including China, India and the Netherlands.
Established in 1996, the 600-bed Island Hospital provides specialty services including cardiology, clinical oncology, pediatrics and plastic surgery. It also offers a medical-tourism hospital program catering to patients in Southeast Asia.
The transaction is the latest in a recent string of similar dealmaking activity in Southeast Asia, which started gaining traction after the conclusion of the $1.2 billion sale of Asia-focused private hospital group Ramsay Sime Darby Health Care.
That business, which was a 50-50 joint venture between Australian hospital operator Ramsay Health Care and Malaysian conglomerate Sime Darby was sold to TPG-backed hospital operator Columbia Asia in November of last year.
The region's healthcare sector is attractive for private-equity investors and companies looking to expand in the space, which is seeing significant growth.
Earlier this year, Japanese multinationals Mitsui & Co.and Rohto Pharmaceutical acquired Eu Yan Sang International, a manufacturer and seller of traditional Chinese medicines. The acquisition valued the Singapore-based company at close to $600 million. In April, private-equity firm Warburg Pincus invested in Xuyen A, a private tertiary general hospital group in Vietnam.
Affinity Equity Partners has $14.0 billion in assets and funds under management, with five offices in Asia and investments in 11 countries. Some of its investments include South Korea's Shinhan Financial Group, Indonesian video-streaming service company Vidio, Australian food-and-beverage company Prime Foods and New Zealand's Tegel Foods.
Rippledot Capital is advising Affinity Equity Partners on the deal.
Write to P.R. Venkat at Venkat.PR@wsj.com
Credit: By P.R. Venkat
: Health care
: Penang Malaysia; Malaysia; Asia
/: : Affinity Equity Partners; NAICS: 523910
: Asian Buyout Firm to Sell Malaysia Hospital to IHH Healthcare; IHH had been the lead contender to scoop up Penang-based Island Hospital
: Venkat, P R
: Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
: 2024
: Sep 4, 2024
: Business
: Business
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics
e-ISSN: 25749579
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3100393987
URL: 
: Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-09-04
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Vietnam/China: Vietnam, China reach consensus on strengthening community of shared future, resolving maritime disputes: foreign minister
: Vietnam and China's top leaders reached a broad consensus on further strengthening the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership, guided by the 'six enhancements' framework, with a focus on solidifying the shared understandings and agreements between the two sides, Minister of Foreign Affairs Bùi Thanh Sõn said of the State-level visit by Party leader and President Tô Lâm to China.
In the interview with local media following the visit at the invitation of Chinese Party General Secretary and President Xi Jinping, Sõn said the visit was a particularly important diplomatic event between Vietnam and China this year.
"The visit was a success on all fronts, contributing significantly to the construction of a Vietnam-China Community of Shared Future that carries strategic significance, which in turn contributes to peace, stability, and development in the region and the world," Sõn said.
General Secretary, President Tô Lâm had a busy and meaningful schedule with 18 activities over more than two days.
During the visit, both sides issued a Joint Statement on further enhancing the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership and deepening the construction of the Vietnam-China Community of Shared Future. Various ministries, sectors, and localities from both countries signed multiple cooperation documents in fields such as inspection and quarantine, customs, healthcare, media, local cooperation and social welfare.
In line with the spirit of the Joint Statement and the high-level consensus achieved during this visit, the two sides will focus on promoting cooperation in five main areas, according to the foreign minister.
First, the two will continue strategic exchanges between the senior leaders of the two Parties and countries, strengthening the foundation of political trust and jointly directing the construction of a Vietnam-China Community of Shared Future with strategic significance. This will involve fully utilising the roles of the Party-to-Party channels, the cooperation mechanisms between the National Assembly of Vietnam and the National People's Congress of China, the Vietnam Fatherland Front and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and defence, security and diplomatic exchange mechanisms. The two sides agreed to strengthen the overall coordination role of the Vietnam-China Bilateral Cooperation Steering Committee.
Second, the two will focus on implementing the 'six enhancements', continuing to firm up the high-level shared understandings and signed agreements, achieving new progress in practical cooperation, facilitating trade, expanding exports of Vietnamese agricultural and aquatic products to the Chinese market and promoting strategic connectivity between the two countries. This includes effectively implementing the cooperation plan connecting the 'Two Corridors, One Belt' framework with China's transport initiative.
They will expedite the 'hard connectivity' between the two countries in terms of high-speed railways, highways and border infrastructure, as well as upgrade 'soft connectivity' in areas like smart customs and smart border gates. Both sides encourage and support capable, reputable companies with advanced technology to invest in each other's countries, focusing on enhancing cooperation in fields such as agriculture and infrastructure, while expanding cooperation in new areas like the digital economy, circular economy, green development, clean energy and renewable energy.
The two have also agreed to designate 2025 as 'Vietnam-China Cultural Exchange Year' during which a series of activities will be organised to celebrate the 75th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Vietnam and China. They will enhance cultural exchanges and cooperation in media, news, publishing, radio and television, as well as healthcare, traditional medicine, disaster prevention and mitigation. Local cooperation and people-to-people exchanges, particularly among the younger generations, will be expanded and tourism cooperation will be promoted, with more direct flights and increased visits between the two countries.
Fourth, Vietnamese and Chinese leadership concurred on strengthening multilateral coordination and cooperation, enhancing collaboration in mechanisms such as the United Nations and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum and supporting each other's candidacies for international organisations. China supports Vietnam in hosting APEC 2027 and in joining and playing a role in multilateral mechanisms. China also supports ASEAN in building a united, resilient, and developing ASEAN Community, while maintaining its central role in the regional architecture.
Finally, the two sides have agreed to effectively manage and actively resolve maritime disputes, continuing to implement high-level common perceptions, reaffirming the importance of maintaining and promoting peace, stability and freedom of navigation and overflight in the East Sea (known internationally as the South China Sea) and agreed to resolve disputes in a peaceful manner in line with international law, especially the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
Vietnam and China will continue to cooperate in effectively implementing the legal documents on the land border and related agreements, strengthening cooperation in the Vietnam-China land border area and organising celebrations for the 25th anniversary of the signing of the Land Border Treaty (1999) and the 15th anniversary of the signing of the three legal documents on the Vietnam-China land border, Minister of Foreign Affairs Sõn said. - VNS
: Leadership; Connectivity; Legal documents; Cooperation; Maritime law; Anniversaries
: : Leadership
: China; Vietnam
/: : Association of Southeast Asian Nations--ASEAN; NAICS: 928120
: Vietnam/China: Vietnam, China reach consensus on strengthening community of shared future, resolving maritime disputes: foreign minister
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Aug 26, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3096668766
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Aug 26, 2024
: 2024-08-25
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Government funding of parental leave may not fully address operational concerns: businesses
: Oh, Tessa; Yeo, Renald. 
: ALTHOUGH the government is picking up the tab for increases in parental leave, this may not solve the problem of having to make covering arrangements for extended periods, said industry associations.
Small businesses in particular could find it hard to adjust, said Ang Yuit, president of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises (Asme).
Their operational worries include business continuity concerns if a key staff member takes extended leave, and finding temporary staffing -- particularly for roles or industries that require specialised skillsets, said Ang.
Prime Minister Lawrence Wong announced on Sunday (Aug 18) that new parents of Singaporean children will get 10 weeks of government-paid leave to share, on top of existing entitlements.
This will be implemented in two phases -- six weeks for parents of babies born from Apr 1, 2025, followed by the full 10-week entitlement a year later.
From Apr 1, 2025, mandatory paid paternity leave will also double to four weeks. With these changes, parents will be entitled to a shared total of 30 weeks of paid parental leave, up from 18 weeks now.
Hard to cover The extra leave entitlement is more likely to pose immediate challenges to SMEs, which typically operate with leaner teams and smaller budgets, said Mark Li, Asia-Pacific vice-president of business development at recruitment agency Randstad.
This is unlike large multinationals, many of which already offer generous maternity and paternity benefits beyond statutory entitlements, noted Laure de Panafieu, partner and Asia head of employment and incentives at law firm Linklaters.
With their small staff strength, many SMEs only have a few decision-makers in key positions, said Asme's Ang.
If such people are away for longer periods of time, this could have negative downstream implications on projects if the transition is not handled well, he warned.
"It may get the company into a difficult situation," said Ang. "For instance, you may actually end up losing money in the long run because your key guy cannot fulfil the project on time."
But a new notice requirement should go some way in moderating these challenges, he added. To help employers, parents will have to give at least four weeks' notice before taking any government-paid parental leave.
Beyond leadership roles, SMEs often have a single person performing corporate functions such as human resources (HR) or accounting, noted Juliet Tan, director of outsourced HR service provider Emplifi HR.
If that person takes extended leave, their SME employer may have to outsource these functions or hire a temporary replacement. "If the job market stays soft, I think you can still find contract workers, from unemployed Singaporeans and the like," she added. "But if the job market (becomes) stronger, you will find it harder to find contract workers down the line."
And in industries or job roles which require specialised skillsets, "finding suitable temporary replacements isn't always easy", said Mark Lee, vice-chairman of the Singapore Business Federation (SBF).
He named sectors such as healthcare, security services and food services, as well as roles such as on-site supervisors for construction and manufacturing.
For service-oriented businesses such as traditional Chinese medicine clinic chain Oriental Remedies, it is challenging to find replacements who can match the exact schedules of the practitioners they are covering, said chief executive officer Beatrice Liu.
"All our patient-facing roles will be particularly challenging to fill during extended leaves due to the specialised skills required and the importance of maintaining consistent care quality," she added.
In such a setting, where the relationship between patient and physician matters, patients could also be reluctant to see a replacement, which could affect business.
And businesses could also incur additional costs due to "overlapping periods" where both the returning employee and temporary staff are needed.
Said SBF's Lee: "To help businesses manage these challenges, we hope the government can consider extending one to two months of pay coverage for returning employees, which would go a long way in offsetting the operational impact."
How to cope Still, given the lead time before the changes kick in, business leaders can plan and adjust their operations, noted Singapore Manufacturing Federation president Lennon Tan.
"To mitigate these challenges, companies may need to consider cross-training employees... and possibly exploring automation to reduce the dependency on specific roles," he said.
On its part, Asme will produce a step-by-step playbook by year-end to help its members adjust to the changes.
The association will also seek government funding to run workshops and courses to bring SME bosses up to speed on HR best practices, and aims to introduce these next year.
Employers can look at increasing the diversity of their workforce, such as hiring older or younger people "who are willing to work and are free from their childcare responsibilities", said Rahul Chawla, head of talent solutions for South-east Asia at Aon.
Another concern is the impact on employees who have to cover for their absent colleagues. Businesses can make this easier, said Robert Walters Singapore director Kirsty Poltock, by giving increased bonuses for the period spent covering their colleagues.
Good management of staffing needs will increase employee morale, noted Benjamin Boh, vice-president of the Restaurant Association of Singapore.
"But those who don't (manage these well) are likely to have trouble in not only hiring, but retaining (a) younger workforce who might have an interest in F&B but also want to start or expand families," said Boh.
Higher take-up rate expected As for whether fathers actually take up their increased leave entitlement, observers expect so -- though it could take time for mindsets on child-rearing responsibilities to change.
According to the latest data available from the National Population and Talent Division, the take-up rate for paternity leave was 50 per cent in 2022.
Having the new leave scheme be shared is thus a good step, as it signals that childcare responsibilities should be equitable between parents, said Robert Walters' Poltock.
By default, the extra weeks will be distributed equally. Parents can freely reallocate this entitlement between themselves in the first four weeks after the child's birth; after this, their employers' consent is required.
By signalling that fathers need to pull their weight in parenthood, the increased paternity and shared leave entitlements may also encourage more women to stay in the workforce when becoming mothers, said Aon's Chawla.
Having more women remain present in the workforce can create a "virtuous cycle", as a more gender-balanced workforce would give men more room to take up paternity leave, he added.
: Workforce planning; Associations; Maternity & paternity leaves; Employees; Small & medium sized enterprises-SME; Workforce; Presidents; Family leave; Employers; Labor market
: : Workforce planning Maternity & paternity leaves Employees Small & medium sized enterprises-SME Workforce Family leave Employers Labor market; : 92111 :‎ Executive Offices 81391 :‎ Business Associations
: Singapore; Asia
: 92111: Executive Offices; 81391: Business Associations
: Government funding of parental leave may not fully address operational concerns: businesses
: Oh, Tessa; Yeo, Renald
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Aug 20, 2024
: NATIONAL DAY RALLY
: Front Page
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3094700488
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-08-20
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Chinese Consul General in Perth Long Dingbin Gives Written Interview to the Australian Communist Party's Guardian
: Chinese Consul General in Perth Long Dingbin gave a written interview to the Australian Communist Party's Guardian. In the interview,CG Long promoted the spirit of the Third Plenary Session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China and the outcomes of Premier Li Qiang's visit to Australia. He expressed a commitment to upholding the idea of building a community with a shared future for mankind, promoting practical cooperation between China and Western Australia in various fields, and advancing the development of a more mature, stable, and fruitful China-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership to better benefit the peoples of both countries. The full text is as follows:
1.The Third Plenary Session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China recently concluded. Can you introduce the significance and achievements of this session?
CG Long: From July 15 to 18, the Third Plenary Session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China was successfully held in Beijing. It is a very important meeting held at a critical juncture of building a great country and advancing national rejuvenation in all respects through Chinese modernization. The session delved into the new circumstances and challenges facing Chinese modernization, formulated systemic plans for further deepening reform across the board, and provided an important window for the world on China's pursuit of high-quality development and high-standard opening up in the new era. The most important outcome of the session was the adoption of Resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China on Further Deepening Reform Comprehensively to Advance Chinese Modernization, a blueprint for China's progress.
One focus of the session is the expansion of China's high-standard opening up. The Resolution spells out in detail the next steps in the area of opening up and makes it clear that opening up is a defining feature of Chinese modernization, and that we must remain committed to the basic state policy of opening to the outside world, promote reform through opening up, and develop new institutions for a higher-standard open economy.
The plenary session stated that China must remain firm in pursuing an independent foreign policy of peace, be dedicated to promoting a community with a shared future for mankind, and foster a favorable external environment for further deepening reform comprehensively and advancing Chinese modernization. We will follow the guidance of Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, fully act on the guiding principles from the third plenary session, and turn the strategic plans for further deepening reform into great momentum for major-country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics.
2.How are you feeling about relations with Australia at the moment? Do you think they're moving in a positive direction?
CG Long: This year marks the 10th anniversary of President Xi Jinping's state visit to Australia and the establishment of China-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership. Chinese Premier Li Qiang made a successful visit to Australia back in June this year, which is the first visit to Australia by the Chinese Premier in 7 years. As Premier Li Qiang pointed out, the most important experience drawn from the past decade of development of China-Australia relations is that the two sides should respect each other, seek common ground while shelving differences and engage in mutually-beneficial cooperation. Since Prime Minister Albanese's visit to China last November, more progress has been made in resuming and enhancing dialogue and cooperation between China and Australia in various fields, leading to the comprehensive turnaround of bilateral relations.
3.Do you have any comments on how Chinese-Australia relations have changed in your time in the position of Consul-General ?
CG Long:As the Consul General of China in Perth from 2021, I have witnessed the havoc wreaked by the COVID-19 pandemic and observed the gradual warming and stabilization of China-Australia relations from a low point. I am committed to upholding the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind, and I am willing to work hand in hand with various sectors in WA to promote pragmatic cooperation between China and WA in various fields. Together, we are dedicated to advancing the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Australia, making it more mature, stable, and fruitful for the benefit of the people of both countries.
4.How are relations with the WA government and WA businesses going?
CG Long: China has been Western Australia's largest trading partner for 17 consecutive years, with Western Australia's total exports to China reaching AUD 144.6 billion in the 2022-2023 fiscal year, accounting for 55% of WA's overall exports. Among this, 85% of iron ore and 99% of lithium produced in WA are sold to China. In addition to traditional sectors such as mining resources and agriculture, there is also vast space for cooperation between the two sides in fields such as health care and medicine, e-commerce, culture, tourism, and education.
Chinese Premier Li's visit to WA has injected more energy to China-WA cooperation. The last visit to WA by the Chinese Premier was 18 years ago. State-to-state relations ultimately boil down to people-to-people exchanges. The foundation of China-Australia relations lies in the people and has always enjoyed broad public support. We warmly welcome people from all walks of life in WA to visit China to experience the vibrant practice of Chinese-style modernization by using the unilateral visa waiver program as well as multiple-entry visas of up to three to five years' duration for tourism, business, and visiting family members.
5. Are there aspects of Chinese society you would like to see more widely known/understood in Australia?
CG Long: The China-Australia relations are mutually beneficial in nature, and the two countries' development is each other's opportunities, not challenges. China's development is aimed at improving the lives of its people. It has never been about surpassing or replacing anyone, nor about competing to be the world's number one. China is ready to work with Australia to uphold the comprehensive strategic partnership, give full play to such mechanisms as the China-Australia Strategic Economic Dialogue, expand trade, broaden cooperation in areas like new energy vehicles and renewable energy power generation, and step up exchanges and cooperation in culture, tourism and other fields and at the sub-national level. We hope that Australia will foster a fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for Chinese businesses, and provide more facilitation for travel between the two peoples.
6.Could you tell us a little about your background, and how you came to be Consul-General to Western Australia?
CG Long: I started my professional diplomatic career at the Foreign Ministry of the People's Republic of China since August 1987. I have been posted to the Embassy of China in Malaysia and Laos and been the Consul General of China in Lahore, Pakistan. In April 2021, I was appointed as the Consul General of China in Perth.
Sub-national cooperation constitutes an important foundation for China-Australia relations. The Chinese Consulate General in Perth is both committed to promoting political, economic and trade, educational cooperation as well as cultural and people-to-people exchanges between China and WA and to boosting mutual understanding and friendship between our two peoples. The Chinese Consulate General will provide high quality consular services to both Chinese and foreign citizens.
My colleagues and I are willing to work together with WA and make contributions to the development of China-Australia comprehensive strategic partnership and China-WA friendship and cooperation.
7.Australian comrades are very interested in China, firstly because all Australians are interested in China nowadays, but also because China is the most successful communist society in the world today. Are there aspects of Chinese communism you think Australian comrades should particularly study?
CG Long: The Third Plenary Session of the 20th Central Committee of the Communist Party of China summarized the valuable experience we have gained since the launch of reform and opening up, particularly from our endeavor to comprehensively deepen reform in the new era, we will implement the following principles:
Upholding the Party's overall leadership. We must firmly uphold the Central Committee's authority and its centralized, unified leadership and ensure that the Party fulfills its core role of exercising overall leadership and coordinating the efforts of all sides. We must ensure that Party leadership is exercised in every aspect and throughout the entire process of reform so that it always advances in the correct political direction.
Adhering to a people-centered approach. We must respect the principal position and pioneering spirit of the people and make our reform measures highly responsive to the call of the people, so as to ensure that reform is for the people and by the people and that its fruits are shared among the people.
Upholding fundamental principles and breaking new ground. Staying committed to socialism with Chinese characteristics, we must keep pace with the times, adapt to the evolution of practice, and take a problem-oriented approach, so that from a new starting point, we can promote innovations in theory and practice, in our institutions and culture, and in all other aspects.
Strengthening institutional building as our main task. We must strengthen top-level design and overall planning, always establishing new systems before abolishing old ones while attaching equal importance to efforts in both respects. We must consolidate foundational systems, refine basic systems, and innovate important systems.
Staying committed to law-based governance on all fronts. We must deepen reform and advance Chinese modernization under the rule of law and ensure unity between reform and the rule of law, seeing that all major reforms have a solid legal basis and that reform achievements are elevated to law in a timely manner.
Applying systems thinking. We must properly handle the major relationships between the economy and society, between the government and the market, between efficiency and fairness, between vitality and order, and between development and security, thus pursuing reform in a more systematic, holistic, and coordinated manner.
8.To the extent that they think about Australia at all, how do most Chinese people see Australia and Chinese-Australian relations?
CG Long: As Chinese President Xi Jinping pointed out, between China and Australia, there are no historical problems or conflicts of fundamental interests. The two sides are well positioned to be partners who trust each other and contribute to each other's success. As we all know, China is Australia's largest source of tourists and international students. Australia, with its developed economy, diverse culture, and unique landscapes, is not only known as the "country riding on the back of sheep" and the "country sitting in a minecart" but also as a dynamic and innovative nation. Its beautiful landscapes, adorable kangaroos and koalas, high-quality educational resources, and delicious wine are all very popular among the Chinese public. The two governments need to create more convenient conditions for personnel exchanges, enhance mutual understanding and amity between the two peoples, and consolidate public support for friendship between the two countries.
9.Perspectives for the future: how do you see Australia and China - and their relations - developing in the future?
CG Long: China is ready to work with Australia to sustain and build on the hard-won positive momentum in bilateral ties, and jointly advance a more mature, stable and fruitful comprehensive strategic partnership to deliver more benefits to the two peoples. Furthermore, China is ready to step up coordination and cooperation with Australia at the regional and international levels, stand against bloc confrontation and a new Cold War in the interest of peace and stability in the region, stay open and inclusive, thrive together, and jointly promote regional economic integration and an open world economy.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: Cooperation; Diplomacy; Diplomatic & consular services; Alliances; Political parties; Communism; Modernization; Tourism
: : 92812 :‎ International Affairs 81394 :‎ Political Organizations
: Western Australia Australia; Australia; China
: Li Qiang; Xi Jinping
/: : Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940
: 92812: International Affairs; 81394: Political Organizations
: China: Chinese Consul General in Perth Long Dingbin Gives Written Interview to the Australian Communist Party's Guardian
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Aug 19, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3094054023
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Aug 19, 2024
: 2024-08-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Court of Appeals Digest: Aug. 12, 2024
: Civil Precedential

Harassment Restraining Orders
Stipulations
In this appeal from the District Court’s grant of a harassment restraining order (HRO), appellant-husband argued, inter alia, that the District Court erred by considering certain allegations that husband maintains were waived in the prior dissolution proceedings. The Court of Appeals held that a stipulation between parties in a dissolution judgement and decree to waive “all liability, claims, and obligations of any kind against the other party, whether arising in contract, status, tort or otherwise” does not operate as a waiver of a party’s right to seek a harassment restraining order based, in part, on conduct that occurred during the marriage. Affirmed.
A23-1799 Wilson v. Wilson (Wright County)


Civil Nonprecedential

Contempt
Civil or Criminal
Appellant and respondents agreed to restrictive covenants as part of appellant’s employment agreement. Respondents sued appellant for breach of that agreement. They later reached a settlement agreement as to the lawsuit, which included a permanent injunction that incorporated restrictive covenants for a 30-month period. Appellant sought review of the District Court’s sanction order finding him in contempt for violating the injunction. Appellant contended, inter alia, that the District Court exercised its criminal contempt powers and failed to follow procedural safeguards. Noting that appellant’s future compliance with the permanent injunction would not remove the $18,000 sanction, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court exercised its criminal contempt powers when it fined appellant for past violations of the permanent injunction and, because there were no procedural safeguards, exercise of these powers was improper. Reversed.
A24-0003 Am. Acad. of Traditional Chinese Med., Inc. v. Yuan (Ramsey County)


Domestic Relations
Child Protection; Termination of Parental Rights
Appellant-mother challenged the District Court’s termination of her parental rights, arguing that the evidence was insufficient to sustain the termination, that respondent county did not make reasonable reunification efforts, and that termination was not in her child’s best interests. Noting that mother had not completed treatment and had missed approximately 90 urinalysis tests, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court did not abuse its discretion by terminating mother’s parental rights on the ground that reasonable efforts had failed to correct the conditions leading to the child’s out-of-home placement. Affirmed.
A24-0375 In re Child of B.A.N. (Wright County)


Domestic Relations
Dissolution; Marital Property
In this appeal from an amended dissolution judgment and decree, appellant-husband argued that the District Court abused its discretion in (1) awarding respondent-wife a nonmarital interest in a chiropractic business, (2) dividing the marital property and debt, and (3) denying him spousal maintenance. The Court of Appeals concluded that the evidence was sufficient to support the District Court’s findings and conclusion that wife’s aunt intended the $12,500 payment to be a gift solely to wife, and the District Court therefore did not err in awarding wife a nonmarital interest in the chiropractic business. Additionally, the District Court did not err in its valuation of the chiropractic business or in its division of the student-loan debt. Finally, the District Court did not abuse its discretion in declining to award husband spousal maintenance. Affirmed.
A23-0660 Fowler v. Fowler (Hennepin County)


Domestic Relations
Child Custody; Judges
In this parenting dispute, pro se appellant-mother appeared to argue that the District Court (1) exhibited bias against her and failed to provide her with a sufficient opportunity to be heard; (2) did not grant her an adequate continuance; and (3) violated her procedural due-process rights. After reviewing the record, the Court of Appeals discerned no judicial bias or abuse of discretion by the District Court. Furthermore, appellant was provided with a sufficient opportunity to be heard. Affirmed.
A23-1553 Oswald v. Deyo (Dodge County)


Domestic Relations
Child Custody; Modification
In this child-custody dispute, mother appealed from the District Court’s denial of her motion to modify the existing custody order, arguing that the court abused its discretion by finding that she failed to produce evidence of endangerment to justify the motion. Noting the supervised nature of father’s parenting time and the substantial testimony strongly indicating that father had been misdiagnosed as bipolar and that he engaged in the questionable behavior while he had not been properly treated for his actual mental-health issues, he Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court acted within its discretion by rejecting mother’s motion based on her failure to introduce evidence sufficient to prove endangerment. Affirmed.
A23-1620 Graves v. Graves (Rice County)


Domestic Relations
Paternity; Genetic Donors
In this dispute between respondent, sperm donor, and appellants, a same-sex married couple, appellants challenged the District Court’s order denying their motion to dismiss respondent’s paternity action, arguing that the District Court erred in determining that respondent alleged sufficient facts to (1) compel genetic testing, and (2) obtain standing as a presumed father. Noting that respondent alleged that he was a sperm donor and admitted that he provided his sperm to appellant to be used in assisted reproduction, the Court of Appeals concluded that this made respondent a donor of genetic material, and he was thus precluded under Minn. Stat. 257.62, subd. 5(c), from using a genetic test to claim to be the child’s biological or legal parent. Furthermore, the District Court erred in determining that respondent has standing under Minn. Stat. 257.55, subd. 1(d). Reversed and remanded.
A23-1782 Edrington v. Sheridan (Ramsey County)


E-filing
Pro Se Parties
Pro se appellant challenged the District Court’s order dismissing his complaint for failure to prosecute, maintaining that the court abused its discretion by declining to grant his motion for default judgment against respondent. Appellant’s summons and complaint were filed via the e-filing system, but mailed in his motion for default judgment. The Court of Appeals concluded that, because he e-filed the summons and complaint, appellant was subject to mandatory e-filing for subsequent documents and therefore his motion was not properly before the District Court. Affirmed.
A23-1725 Green v. Regus Group (Hennepin County)


Foster Care
Financial Responsibility
This appeal stemmed from a dispute over whether Benton County or Pope County was financially responsible for the cost of foster-care services for the minor children of mother. The dispositive question was which county mother resided in on the date her children were placed in foster care. Noting that, although mother leased an apartment in Pope County, the record did not indicate that mother intended to maintain the lease, and that other than the first month of the lease, mother never paid rent for the apartment, nor did she contact her landlord about her failure to pay rent, the Court of Appeals concluded the District Court correctly determined that mother lived in Benton County on the relevant date. Affirmed.
A24-0126 W. Prairie Hum. Servs. v. County of Benton (Pope County)


Fraud
Representation
In this dispute between appellants, foreclosed owners of commercial property, and respondent, a law firm that represented appellants in related proceedings, appellants alleged that the District Court (1) erred by dismissing their fraudulent-concealment claim on summary judgment, (2) abused its discretion by excluding several exhibits during trial, and (3) abused its discretion when it gave a curative instruction after appellants’ opening statement. The Court of Appeals concluded that the allegations in the complaint prepared by law firm were litigation claims, not false representations, and thus appellant failed, as a matter of law, to present evidence that law firm made a false representation of a past or existing material fact. Affirmed.
A23-1758 Olson v. Hinshaw & Culbertson LLP (Hennepin County)


Landlord & Tenant
Abandoned Property
Appellant-landlord challenged the District Court’s denial of its claim for a declaratory judgment that, under Minn. Stat. 504B.271, subd. 1, it owned the equipment and other personal property of respondent-tenants that remained at the leased premises following an eviction. Appellant argued that the District Court erred by (1) failing to address whether appellant disposed of respondents’ personal property under Minn. Stat. 504B.271, subd. 1(b); (2) determining that appellant failed to comply with various requirements in Minn. Stat. 504B.271 and 504B.365; and (3) determining that appellant forfeited any right to claim ownership of the personal property by failing to comply with certain requirements of the landlord-tenant laws. Noting that the record supported the District Court’s implicit rejection of appellant’s claim to have properly disposed of the tenants’ personal property, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court’s decision comported with the applicable statutes and had ample support in the evidentiary record. Affirmed.
A24-0149 Muska Elec. Co. v. Early Morning Farms-New Hope, LLC (Hennepin County)


Landlord & Tenant
Damages
In this second appeal from a District Court’s final judgment in a breach-of-lease action, appellant-landlords contended that the District Court erred by awarding damages that were unsupported by the record and by awarding attorney fees to a non-prevailing party. The Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court’s finding as to the value of the business at the time the breach began relied on evidence that was too remote in time and thus the District Court’s damages award was not supported by the record. But respondent was the prevailing party and appellants did not argue that the attorney-fee award was unreasonable. Affirmed in part and reversed in part.
A24-0001 Shikur v. Halverson (Ramsey County)


Real Property
Occupancy Licenses
Relators own residential rental property in respondent-city. On appeal, they challenged the decision of the city to revoke the occupancy license for relator’s property, arguing the decision reflected procedural error and was arbitrary and capricious. Relators also argued that the city erred in applying a two-strike ordinance provision to revoke the occupancy licenses for both of their properties for a period of five years. Noting that the city council’s decision was based on an extensive record including testimony from the fire chief who conducted almost monthly inspections, inspection reports describing the code violations, and photographs taken during the inspections that depict the violations, the Court of Appeals concluded that the city’s decision to revoke the occupancy license did not reflect an error of law and was not arbitrary and capricious. Affirmed.
A23-1618 KSR Invs., LLC v. City of Columbia Heights (City of Columbia Heights)


Service
Dismissal
Appellant argued that the District Court erred by dismissing with prejudice her action under the Minnesota Environmental Rights Act (MERA) for failure to comply with statutory service and publication requirements. The Court of Appeals concluded that, because there had been no adjudication on the merits, the dismissal should have been without prejudice. Reversed and remanded.
A24-0089 Schmidt v. City of Orono (Hennepin County)


Civil Order Opinions

Drivers’ License Revocation
Impairment
On remand from the supreme court, the Court of Appeals considered the issues that were not decided when it reversed the District Court’s order sustaining the revocation of appellant’s driver’s license. The Court of Appeals concluded that it was not left with a definite and firm conviction that the District Court clearly erred in finding that appellant was impaired by methadone. Affirmed.
A22-1238 Nash v. Comm’r of Pub. Safety (Hennepin County)



Service of Process
Waiver
Appellant challenged the District Court’s order denying his motion to dismiss respondent’s judgment-renewal action against him for insufficient service of process. Noting that appellant moved the District Court twice after the defective service of process but before raising a personal-jurisdiction defense or a service-of-process defense, the Court of Appeals concluded that appellant actively participated in the proceedings thereby waiving these defenses. Affirmed.
A24-0125 Larson v. Monson (Kandiyohi County)



Criminal Nonprecedential

Assault
Dangerous Weapon
In this direct appeal, defendant argued that the evidence was insufficient to support his convictions of second-degree assault because the state failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he used a dangerous weapon. Defendant also argued that the District Court erred by giving the model jury instruction on second-degree assault, which states that a temporarily inoperable firearm is a dangerous weapon. Noting that sustaining defendant’s conviction did not require proof of whether the firearm was loaded, unloaded, temporarily inoperable, or loaded improperly, the Court of Appeals concluded that there was sufficient evidence to establish that defendant used a dangerous weapon. Furthermore, the District Court did not err in its jury instructions. Affirmed.
A23-1333 State v. DuPaul (Ramsey County)


Fleeing
Sufficiency of the Evidence
Defendant argued that his conviction for fleeing by means other than a motor vehicle must be reversed for insufficient evidence. Alternatively, defendant argued that he was entitled to a new trial because the District Court plainly erred by instructing the jury that certain video exhibits would not be available in the jury deliberation room and by misstating the elements of the fleeing offense. Noting that the circumstances showed that defendant knew the officer was attempting to stop him but continued to bike, the Court of Appeals concluded that the circumstances supported the conclusion that defendant acted with the intent to evade the officer for the purpose of avoiding arrest, detention, or investigation. And the District Court did not commit plain error in its instructions to the jury. Affirmed.
A23-1668 State v. Dustan Lutz (Stearns County)


Ineffective Assistance of Counsel
Deficient Performance
Defendant challenged his conviction of fifth-degree assault, arguing that he was entitled to a new trial because defense counsel conceded his guilt without his consent or acquiescence. Noting that a plain reading of counsel’s challenged statements demonstrated that counsel simply acknowledged an undisputed factthat defendant admitted to police that he punched the victimand urged the jury to nevertheless find defendant not guilty of the charged offenses, the Court of Appeals concluded that counsel did not concede defendant’s guilt. Affirmed.
A22-1509 State v. Hall (Stearns County)


Ineffective Assistance of Counsel
Prejudice
Petitioner repeatedly shot two individuals. One died and the other spent time in the hospital recovering from multiple gunshot wounds. A jury found petitioner guilty of second-degree murder and attempted second-degree murder. The Court of Appeals affirmed the convictions but reversed and remanded for resentencing in the order that the offenses occurred. Petitioner then pursued postconviction relief, arguing that he received ineffective assistance of appellate counsel during his direct appeal. The postconviction court denied the petition. Noting that the verdict was surely unattributable to the admission of USB drives as the jury did not view the content, the Court of Appeals concluded that any theoretical error by appellate counsel in failing to raise evidentiary challenges to the USB drives did not prejudice petitioner. Affirmed.
A23-1961 Misters v. State (Dakota County)


Murder
Sufficiency of the Evidence
Defendant challenged his conviction of second-degree murder, arguing that the evidence left grave doubts about his guilt and that the District Court abused its discretion by admitting hearsay evidence. Noting that defendant did not provide any reasons or evidence to impeach the credibility of the state’s expert witnesses, the Court of Appeals concluded that grave doubts about defendant’s conviction did not exist. And the witness’s credibility was sufficiently challenged to satisfy rule 801(d)(1)(B). Affirmed.
A23-0880 State v. Carter (St. Louis County)


Probation Revocation
Need for Confinement
Defendant challenged the revocation of his probation, arguing that the District Court failed to make sufficient findings to conclude that the need for confinement outweighed the policies favoring probation. Noting that the District Court’s analysis of the third Austin factor demonstrated it relied on allegations that defendant engaged in criminal conduct, but that defendant did not admit to those allegations of criminal activity and those allegations therefore could not form the basis of a probation revocation, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court did not make adequate findings about the third Austin factor and the Modtland subfactors. Reversed and remanded.
A24-0169 State v. Lutz (Sherburne County)


Relationship Evidence
Prejudice
Defendant challenged his conviction and sentence for felony domestic assault, arguing that the District Court abused its discretion by admitting unfairly prejudicial relationship evidence and clearly erred in calculating the custody credit to which he was entitled at sentencing. Noting that the relationship evidence was highly probative of disputed trial issues and was not unfairly prejudicial as the victim did not elaborate on the nature of defendant’s prior violent conduct or describe any resulting injury, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court did not abuse its discretion by admitting relationship evidence. But the District Court erred in calculating defendant’s custody credit. Affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
A23-1557 State v. Magee (St. Louis County)


Search Warrants
Franks Hearings
In this direct appeal from his convictions of threats of violence, second-degree assault with a dangerous weapon, fifth-degree possession of a controlled substance, and nine gross-misdemeanor counts of unlawful possession of a firearm, defendant argued that the District Court erred in denying his request for a Franks hearing because the search-warrant application contained material misrepresentations and omissions and did not otherwise provide probable cause. The Court of Appeals agreed with the District Court that adding the alleged omissions into the search-warrant application would not impact the finding of probable cause because the purported omissions did not negate the other evidence provided to law enforcement including defendant’s disturbing texts about what would happen if his mother did not return the guns. Affirmed.
A23-1169 State v. Peterson (Meeker County)


Sentencing
Custody Credit
In this sentencing appeal, the state argued that the District Court erred by granting defendant custody credit for time spent in out-of-state custody. The Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court erred in awarding defendant custody credit for any time spent in custody in North Dakota that was not solely in connection with the underlying offense. Reversed and remanded.
A24-0245 State v. Johnson (Clay County)


Sentencing
Downward Departures
In this appeal from a final judgment of conviction for first-degree criminal sexual conduct following his guilty plea, defendant argued that the District Court abused its discretion by denying his motion for a downward dispositional departure in sentencing. Noting that the District Court expressed concern regarding defendant’s lack of remorse and denial, which were supported by ample evidence in the record, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court acted within its broad discretion by denying defendant’s departure motion. Affirmed.
A23-1303 State v. Curtis (Washington County)


Sentencing
Downward Departures
On direct appeal from the final judgment of conviction for fifth-degree possession of a controlled substance, defendant challenged the District Court’s denial of his motion for a downward durational or dispositional departure. The Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court erred in its determination that it lacked the discretion to grant defendant’s durational departure based on the substantial and compelling circumstances of the amendment to the fifth-degree drug possession statute that decriminalized defendant’s offense when the effective date of that statutory change occurred five days after the sentencing date. But there was no abuse of discretion in the District Court’s denial of a downward dispositional departure. Affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
A23-1562 State v. Johnston (Polk County)


Sentencing
Downward Departures
Defendant pleaded guilty to violating an order for protection and the District Court imposed a presumptive sentence of 29 months of imprisonment. Defendant argued in this direct appeal that the District Court abused its discretion by denying his motion for a downward dispositional departure. Noting that it was satisfied that the District Court thoroughly considered all the evidence before denying defendant’s motion, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court acted within its discretion by imposing the presumptive sentence. Affirmed.
A23-1696 State v. Neita (Stearns County)


Sentencing
Restitution
Appellant challenged a disposition order requiring her to pay restitution after she was adjudicated delinquent of gross-misdemeanor theft, arguing that the District Court failed to consider whether requiring appellant to pay for losses caused by an uncharged accomplice was reasonable to her rehabilitation. Noting that appellant did not raise this issue in the District Court, and that the record supported the District Court’s restitution order, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court did not abuse its discretion. Affirmed.
A23-1986 In re Welfare of J.D.C. (Hennepin County)


Threats
Sufficiency of the Evidence
A jury found defendant guilty of making a threat of violence by displaying a BB gun in a threatening manner. The jury’s verdict is based on evidence that, during a verbal confrontation with a group of teenagers in a city park, defendant held a BB gun in her hand in a way that scared the teenagers and caused them to run to safety. The District Court imposed a stayed sentence of 365 days in jail. The Court of Appeals concluded that the evidence was sufficient to support the conviction. But defendant was entitled to a one-day reduction of her sentence in light of recent statutory amendments. Affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
A23-1061 State v. Fulford (Hennepin County)


Warrantless Searches
Automobile Exception
In this direct appeal from the judgment of conviction for unlawful possession of a firearm, defendant challenged the District Court’s pretrial order denying his motion to suppress evidence obtained from the warrantless search of a minivan. Defendant argued the District Court erred when it concluded that the search was lawful under the automobile exception to the search-warrant requirement. Noting that an investigator reasonably believed defendant was carrying a long gun in public based on the fact that he saw defendant carrying a blanket-covered object like a long gun, he saw a gun stock underneath the blanket, and a CRI told the investigator that a man was carrying a rifle under a blanket at that location, the Court of Appeals concluded the District Court did not err by determining that the search of defendant’s vehicle was permitted under the automobile exception. Affirmed.
A23-1341 State v. Dixon (Hennepin County)



Criminal Order Opinions

Plea Withdrawal
Adequate Factual Basis
Defendant sought to withdraw his guilty plea to predatory-offender-registration violation under the manifest-injustice standard. Noting that it was not clear from the record that defendant understood which portion of the registration statute he allegedly violated, the Court of Appeals concluded that it was unclear whether defendant’s plea was supported by a proper factual basis, and it was therefore unable to evaluate whether his guilty plea was accurate. Reversed and remanded.
A23-1455 State v. Lowry (Freeborn County)


Probation
Stays
Defendant argued that the District Court failed to apply the Austin factors and abused its discretion because it relied solely on the probation officer’s recommendation when it revoked the stay of imposition. Noting that the District Court committed defendant to the commissioner of corrections, stayed execution of that sentence, and reinstated him on supervised probation on his original terms and conditions, the Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court was not required to apply the Austin analysis as the sentence did not result in either revocation of probation or an executed sentence. Affirmed.
A24-0440 State v. Prestridge (Martin County)


Probation Revocation
Intentional Violations
In this appeal from an order revoking probation, defendant argued the District Court abused its discretion by revoking probation when it determined that his violation for failing to complete treatment was intentional and inexcusable. Noting that testimony revealed that defendant knew he was referred to the treatment program in South Dakota but never went to the South Dakota treatment facility and, instead, used controlled substances on a daily basis, the Court of Appeals concluded that there was no abuse of discretion in finding that defendant’s violation was both intentional and inexcusable. Affirmed.
A24-0091 State v. Wateski (Olmsted County)



Sentencing
Downward Departures
On appeal from the final judgment of conviction for four counts of second-degree burglary, defendant challenged his sentence, arguing that the District Court (1) abused its discretion by denying his downward-dispositional departure motion and (2) erred by ordering restitution without considering defendant’s ability to pay as required by statute. The Court of Appeals concluded that the District Court was not required to depart from the presumptive sentence. However, the District Court erred in ordering restitution as it did not expressly state that it considered his ability to pay before awarding restitution. Affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded.
A23-1431 State v. Fuchs-Thielen (Renville County)
: Lessors; Parental rights; Injunctions; Foster care; Sperm donations; Declaratory judgments; Restrictive covenants; Chiropractic medicine; Child custody; District courts; Law firms; Restraining orders; Paternity; Legal arguments; Personal property
: : Law firms; : 92211 :‎ Courts 62131 :‎ Offices of Chiropractors 54111 :‎ Offices of Lawyers 62399 :‎ Other Residential Care Facilities
: United States--US; Minnesota
: 92211: Courts; 62131: Offices of Chiropractors; 54111: Offices of Lawyers; 62399: Other Residential Care Facilities
: Court of Appeals Digest: Aug. 12, 2024
: Minnesota Lawyer; Minneapolis, Minn.
: 2024
: Aug 15, 2024
: BridgeTower Media Holding Company
: Minneapolis, Minn.
/: United States, Minneapolis, Minn.
: Law
ISSN: 10984410
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3094949623
URL: 
: Copyright © 2024 BridgeTower Media. All Rights Reserved.
: 2024-10-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
KKR-Led Consortium Starts Sale Process for Around $3.0 Billion Philippines Hospital Business; The U.S. private-equity firm is also in initial talks with Metro Pacific Investments Corp., the original owner of Metro Pacific Hospital Holdings, to explore its interest in buying a stake
: Venkat, P R. 
: A KKR-led consortium has started the process of selling its entire stake in the largest private hospital in the Philippines in a deal that could value the business at around $3.0 billion, people familiar with the process said.
The U.S. private-equity firm is also in initial talks with minority shareholder Metro Pacific Investments Corp., a Philippines conglomerate that was the original owner of Metro Pacific Hospital Holdings, to explore its interest in buying a stake of the healthcare provider.
The person said a deal may or may not materialize as the talks are exploratory. KKR and Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC own a combined 80% in the hospital, with the rest owned by MPIC the people said.
KKR and GIC invested about $680 million through a series of investments in common shares in Metro Pacific Hospitals and mandatorily exchangeable bonds issued by MPIC in 2019.
Those proceeds were used to support Metro Pacific Hospitals' investments in building more hospitals and new healthcare businesses and to help reduce MPIC's debt.
The deal would be the latest in a string of activity in Southeast Asia's healthcare industry. The region has become an attractive market for private-equity investors and companies looking to expand in the space, which is seeing significant growth.
Dealmaking in the region has been gaining traction after the conclusion of the $1.2 billion sale of Asia-focused private hospital group Ramsay Sime Darby Health Care. That business, a 50-50 joint venture between Australian hospital operator Ramsay Health Care and Malaysian conglomerate Sime Darby, was sold to TPG-backed hospital operator Columbia Asia in November last year.
Earlier this year, Mitsui & Co.and ROHTO Pharmaceutical acquired Eu Yan Sang International, a manufacturer and seller of Chinese traditional medicines. The acquisition valued the Singapore-based company at about $800.0 million. In April, Warburg Pincus invested in Xuyen A, a leading private tertiary general hospital group in Vietnam.
Currently, buyout firm Affinity Equity Partners is in the market soliciting bids for its Malaysia-based Island Hospital, which is likely to be valued at more than $800.0 million, people familiar with this process have said earlier.
The Philippines-based healthcare company has a portfolio of 24 hospitals with over 4,000 beds in the Southeast Asian country. It also operates a network of primary care clinics and cancer centers, among other investments in allied healthcare services.
Write to P.R. Venkat at Venkat.PR@wsj.com
Credit: By P.R. Venkat
: Consortia; Private equity; Health care; Equity stake
: : Private equity Equity stake
: United States--US; Asia; Philippines; Singapore
: KKR-Led Consortium Starts Sale Process for Around $3.0 Billion Philippines Hospital Business; The U.S. private-equity firm is also in initial talks with Metro Pacific Investments Corp., the original owner of Metro Pacific Hospital Holdings, to explore its interest in buying a stake
: Venkat, P R
: Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
: 2024
: Aug 14, 2024
: Business
: Business
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics
e-ISSN: 25749579
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3092531820
URL: 
: Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-08-15
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Revealed: The top 30 healthcare visionaries of 2024
: The Middle East is home to some of the most innovative and impactful leaders in the healthcare sector. Their commitment to excellence, dedication to patient care, and visionary leadership have propelled the region’s healthcare standards to new heights.
This list celebrates the very best leaders in the Middle East’s healthcare industry, highlighting individuals who have not only achieved remarkable success in their respective fields, but have significantly contributed to the advancement of healthcare in the region.
Name: Dr. Sulaiman Al Habib
Rank: 01
Designation: Chairman of the Board of Directors
Company: Dr Sulaiman Al Habib Medical Services Group and Dr Sulaiman Al Habib Investment Company
Country: Saudi Arabia
Dr. Sulaiman Al Habib is the Chairman of the Board of Directors for both Dr Sulaiman Al Habib Medical Services Group (HMG) and Dr Sulaiman Al Habib Investment Company. With a strong background in paediatrics, Dr. Al Habib headed the Department of Paediatrics at the Security Forces Hospital in Riyadh from 1988 to 1991.
He earned his Bachelor’s degree in Medicine and Surgery from King Saud University in Riyadh in 1977 and completed a fellowship in Paediatrics from the British Royal College of Physicians in 1984. As the largest shareholder of HMG, Dr. Al Habib has elevated the group to a leading position in the healthcare industry, with a strong presence and reputation across the Gulf region.
Establishment and growth of HMG Established in 1995 and originally known as the Olaya Medical Complex, HMG is one of Saudi Arabia’s fastest-growing healthcare organisations, operating 20 healthcare facilities in Saudi Arabia, the UAE, and Bahrain. The group’s growth plan has positioned it to meet the rising demand for quality healthcare services. In Q1 2024, HMG reported a 12. 60 percent year-on-year increase in net profit to $147 million, up from $130. 9 million. Revenues grew by 9. 30 percent year-on-year to $673. 3 million, compared to $616. 9 million in the same period.
Dr Sulaiman Al Habib Hospital Dr Sulaiman Al Habib Hospital in the UAE is part of the largest private healthcare provider in the Kingdom. The hospital began operations in 2015 and has since been committed to providing acute, specialist-oriented, multi-disciplinary healthcare to the people in Dubai and the wider community. With 30 years of experience, the hospital’s mission is to provide the latest medical facilities and innovative healthcare services of high value to individuals.
Specialities offered The hospital offers a wide range of specialities, including cardiology, neurology, IVF, psychology, pulmonology, and more. This comprehensive approach ensures that patients receive high-quality care across various medical disciplines.
Leadership and vision Under Dr. Al Habib’s leadership, HMG continues to focus on delivering exceptional healthcare services. The group’s success is driven by its commitment to quality, innovation, and patient-centric care. Dr Sulaiman Al Habib Hospital’s dedication to providing cutting-edge medical facilities and innovative healthcare solutions has solidified its reputation as a leading healthcare provider in the region.
BACK TO TOP Name: John Sunil
Rank: 02
Designation: CEO
Company: Burjeel Holdings
Country: UAE
For the last two decades, Burjeel Holdings has firmly established itself as a pillar in the region’s healthcare landscape. Founded on the principles of patient-centric care by Dr. Shamsheer Vayalil, the Group operates some of the most advanced healthcare facilities in the GCC. Today, it has a diverse portfolio comprising 83 assets, including 17 hospitals, 43 medical centres, and 15 pharmacies. Its flagship facility, Burjeel Medical City (BMC), stands as a hub for complex care services and ranks among the largest tertiary care hospitals in the UAE.
Upholding excellence across the GCC Operating across the UAE, Oman, and a growing segment in Saudi Arabia, the brands under Burjeel Holdings—BMC, Burjeel, Medeor, LLH, Lifecare, PhysioTherabia, and Tajmeel—uphold a reputation for excellence. Thirteen of its facilities are JCI-accredited, highlighting the Group’s commitment to maintaining the highest standards of healthcare.
Leadership and vision John Sunil, CEO of Burjeel Holdings, has played a key role in the Group’s journey. His focus on translating the Group’s vision and purpose into actionable priorities has driven the elevation of utilisation across Burjeel’s world-class assets and the expansion of its service portfolio.
Under Sunil’s leadership, Burjeel Holdings has prioritised the creation of a comprehensive ecosystem for complex care. The Group is building its expertise in complex care by focusing on key areas such as oncology, advanced orthopedics, advanced gynecology, fetal medicine and paediatric specialties, multi-organ transplant, and bone marrow transplant.
Innovating healthcare delivery Sunil’s leadership has ushered in a new era of healthcare innovation, harnessing state-of-the-art technology and attracting world-renowned medical talent. He leads high-value collaborations to revolutionise healthcare delivery. From deploying Oracle Cerner for EMR transformation and building a connected healthcare ecosystem to leveraging robotics for precision surgery, Burjeel Holdings is leading the way in innovation.
A recent milestone is the opening of the Burjeel Cancer Institute (BCI) at BMC. BCI stands as the centrepiece of Burjeel’s cancer care network, spanning facilities in Abu Dhabi, Al Ain, Al Dhafra, Sharjah, and Dubai.
Commitment to medical education and research Burjeel Holdings’ commitment to medical education and research is evident through initiatives like establishing the Burjeel Institute for Global Health in the US. The Group has also partnered with Colombia-based Keralty to jointly develop and operate an integrated healthcare ecosystem to provide affordable health services in MENA.
The journey of John Sunil Sunil’s journey at Burjeel Holdings has seen him rise from Financial Controller to Chief Operations Officer, Regional CEO of Burjeel brands, and CEO in 2022. As CEO, he develops and executes strategies for business growth, overcoming complex challenges, and delivering value for stakeholders.
A strategic leader, Sunil has a track record of achieving extraordinary growth, revenue, operational performance, and profitability. His extensive experience in revenue building and high-level operational initiatives, including infrastructure design, process re-engineering, turnaround management, and reorganisation, has been instrumental in the Group’s success. He continues to navigate complex business challenges and make high-stake decisions with experience-based judgment, a solid work ethic, and irreproachable integrity.
Sunil’s management inspires a team of dedicated and compassionate healthcare professionals at Burjeel Holdings, united in their mission to advance patient outcomes and find innovative solutions to complex healthcare problems. Under his leadership, Burjeel Holdings is well-positioned to expand its legacy of excellence in the healthcare sector.
BACK TO TOP Name: Dr. Reem Osman
Rank: 03
Designation: Regional CEO
Company: Saudi German Health
Country: UAE
Dr. Reem Osman has been the Regional CEO of Saudi German Health (SGH) since May 2021, bringing over two decades of expertise in healthcare to the role. Under her leadership, SGH has solidified its position in Dubai, thriving in both the Middle East’s flourishing healthcare industry and the medical tourism market.
Dr. Osman holds a Medical degree from Tishreen University of Medicine in Syria and furthered her education with a Master’s degree in Business Administration and a Master’s degree in Ophthalmology and Eye Surgery from Wollongong University in Sydney, Australia. She also holds a certificate in Management Healthcare Delivery from Harvard Business School.
Company overview SGH, founded by the Batterjee family, operates 18 facilities across Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Egypt, Yemen, Morocco, and Pakistan. As part of one of the largest hospital groups in the MENA region, SGH Dubai provides a broad spectrum of medical services at an international level, including critical care, various specialities, and sub-specialities. It also boasts one of the largest emergency departments in the private sector.
Financial performance In Q1 2024, SGH achieved a net profit of $13. 9 million, a 3. 63 percent increase from $13. 4 million in Q1 2023. Revenues rose by 8. 02 percent to $184 million as of 31 March 2024, up from $170. 3 million in Q1 2023. Dr. Osman’s leadership continues to drive SGH’s success and growth in the competitive healthcare landscape of the Middle East.
BACK TO TOP Name: Said Darwazah
Rank: 04
Designation: Executive Chairman
Company: Hikma Pharmaceuticals
Country: Jordan
Said Darwazah served as CEO of Hikma Pharmaceuticals from July 2007 to February 2018, and from June 2022 to August 2023. He has also been the Executive Chairman since May 2014. From 1994 to 2003, he was Chairman and CEO of Hikma’s group holding company. Additionally, he served as the Minister of Health for the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan from 2003 to 2006. Darwazah’s extensive experience is backed by strong academic qualifications, including an Industrial Engineering degree from Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Leadership and contributions Darwazah’s leadership extends beyond Hikma Pharmaceuticals. He holds several prominent positions: Chairman of Royal Jordanian Airlines and Dead Sea Touristic & Real Estate Investments, Vice Chairman of Capital Bank, Jordan, and board member of INSEAD and Dash Ventures Limited. He is also the Chairman of the Board at the Queen Rania Foundation.
Company overview Hikma Pharmaceuticals, launched over four decades ago in the MENA region, has grown remarkably, establishing a significant presence in the US, Canada, the MENA region, and Europe. Today, the company operates 29 manufacturing plants and eight R&D hubs, focusing on three main business lines; injectables, branded, and generics.
Financial performance In 2023, Hikma Pharmaceuticals secured $2,875 million in revenue, which is an increase of 14 percent from $2,517 million in 2022. It also saw the company secure a 30 percent increase in operating profit; $367 million from $282 million in 2022. Under Darwazah’s leadership, Hikma Pharmaceuticals has not only expanded its global footprint but reinforced its commitment to quality and innovation in the pharmaceutical industry. His vast experience and strategic vision continue to drive the company’s growth and success.
BACK TO TOP Name: Shaista Asif
Rank: 05
Designation: Co-founder and Group COO
Company: PureHealth Group
Country: UAE
Shaista Asif has had a distinguished career spanning over two decades, including 17 years in the healthcare industry. In 2006, she co-founded PureHealth and has since driven its growth and transformation into the largest healthcare group in the Middle East. As Group Chief Operating Officer, Asif’s vision fuels PureHealth’s continuous innovation. She leads the Group’s diverse portfolio, which encompasses hospitals, clinics, laboratories, health insurance, healthcare procurement, and health tech solutions.
Company overview PureHealth is a key player in the region’s healthcare landscape, with a vast network of over 100 hospitals, 147 laboratories, and more than 300 clinics, supported by over 56,000 dedicated employees. At the core of PureHealth’s success is its holistic ecosystem, which includes prominent entities such as Abu Dhabi Health Services Company (SEHA), National Health Insurance Company (Daman), Ambulatory Healthcare Services (AHS), Rafed, PureLab, One Health, The Life Corner, and The Medical Office.
Global expansion and financial performance PureHealth’s success extends beyond the Middle East. The Group has significantly expanded its global reach, including acquiring a stake in Ardent Health Services, the United States’ fourth-largest privately held healthcare group. The Group aims to further its global expansion through additional acquisitions.
In Q1 2024, PureHealth reported net profit growth of $133. 6 million and revenue of $1. 66 billion. The Group achieved a robust revenue growth of 52 percent, reaching $1. 66 billion, and an 85 percent year-on-year increase in hospital revenue, totalling $1. 31 billion. The growth was driven by a 10 percent year-on-year surge in total patient volumes, reaching 1. 5 million patients, and a 10 percent increase in bed occupancy rates to 71 percent. The upward trajectory was supported by the consolidation of recent 100 percent acquisitions of Sheikh Shakhbout Medical City (SSMC) in Abu Dhabi and Circle Health Group in the UK.
In addition to achievements in the hospitals segment, the insurance sector recorded a revenue increase of 13 percent year-on-year to $435. 6 million in Q1 2024, driven by higher gross written premiums, reflecting the growing demand for Daman’s insurance offerings. The procurement segment further supported revenue growth, with a 4 percent increase to $299. 5 million in Q1 2024.
Profitability and asset growth In terms of profitability, the Group’s gross profit reached approximately $408. 3 million in Q1 2024, marking a 6 percent year-on-year increase, achieving a gross margin of around 24 percent. The profitability is attributed to an enhanced patient mix, reduced utilisation rates across the insurance segment, and successful operational streamlining and cost optimisation initiatives.
Net profit for PureHealth was notably strong at approximately $133. 6 million, up by around $74 million from Q1 2023, with a margin improvement of approximately 2. 5 percentage points to 8 percent. As of 31 March 2024, PureHealth reported total assets of approximately $12. 8 billion, up from around $7. 6 billion in Q1 2023, which includes a total cash balance of $2. 2 billion.
BACK TO TOP Name: Dr. Hanan Mohamed Al Kuwari
Rank: 06
Designation: Managing Director
Company: Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC)
Country: Qatar
Her Excellency Dr. Hanan Mohamed Al Kuwari has been a pivotal figure at Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC), where she has held the position of Managing Director since 2007. Dr. Al Kuwari began her career at HMC’s Women’s Hospital in 1996 and steadily advanced through the ranks to become Managing Director. Her extensive experience also includes roles at the World Health Organisation (WHO), Reuters, and work as a freelance health reporter and writer.
Educational background Dr. Al Kuwari’s educational achievements are notable, with a PhD in Healthcare Management from Brunel University in the UK. Her academic background has significantly contributed to her leadership and strategic vision at HMC.
Responsibilities and achievements As Managing Director, Dr. Al Kuwari is responsible for overseeing the operational and strategic management of HMC, ensuring the delivery of high-quality healthcare services. She has played a crucial role in the preparation and development of Qatar’s National Health and Public Health Strategies, monitoring their progress and implementation. Her dedication and expertise have been instrumental in shaping the healthcare landscape in Qatar.
Company overview Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) is the primary provider of secondary and tertiary healthcare in Qatar and one of the leading hospital providers in the Middle East. For over four decades, HMC has been dedicated to delivering the safest, most effective, and compassionate care to all its patients. HMC manages 12 hospitals, including nine specialist hospitals and three community hospitals, as well as the National Ambulance Service and home and residential care services.
Accreditation and expansion In January 2016, HMC became the first healthcare system globally to have all its hospitals accredited by Joint Commission International under the Academic Medical Center accreditation programme.
Additionally, since 2011, the National Ambulance Service, Home Healthcare Service, Stroke Service, and Palliative Care have all received this accreditation. To meet the needs of a rapidly growing population, HMC announced its plans to expand its capacity through to 2030. The expansion included three newly opened hospitals in Hamad Bin Khalifa Medical City: Qatar Rehabilitation Institute, Ambulatory Care Center, and Women’s Wellness and Research Center.
Responsibilities and achievements In addition to her role at HMC, Dr. Al Kuwari has been serving as the Minister of Public Health since January 2016. In this capacity, she oversees all aspects of the Ministry of Public Health, ensuring the quality and effectiveness of services provided by both public and private health service providers. She also manages public health programmes, including disease prevention, occupational health, food safety, environmental safety, and national immunisation.
BACK TO TOP Name: Hasan Jasem Al Nowais
Rank: 07
Designation: Managing Director and Group CEO
Company: M42
Country: UAE
Hasan Jasem Al Nowais is a distinguished business leader currently serving as the Managing Director and Group CEO of M42, a tech-enabled global healthcare company headquartered in Abu Dhabi. Under Al Nowais’ leadership, M42 is transforming the traditional healthcare landscape by harnessing advanced technologies such as artificial intelligence and cutting-edge sequencing. This approach enables greater personalised, precise, and preventative care through M42’s extensive global network.
Company overview M42 is dedicated to reshaping the future of health sustainably, with technology as a key enabler. M42 aims to empower individuals by anticipating and preventing health conditions while maintaining a strong consideration for environmental sustainability.
Comprehensive healthcare services M42 offers a comprehensive range of healthcare services, from primary care to specialised treatment options, enhanced by personalised medicine and advanced healthtech solutions. The company manages over 450 medical facilities in 26 countries, employing more than 20,000 professionals. M42 operates the region’s first academic health system, combining innovative research, top-class education, and excellent clinical care.
Additional leadership roles Aside from M42, Al Nowais holds a number of influential positions, including Chairman of Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi, Rosewood Abu Dhabi, and Four Seasons Hotel Abu Dhabi. He is also a Board Member of Yas Holdings and Chairman of Yas Holdings Healthcare Committee.
Previous roles and achievements Before M42, Al Nowais was the Chief Executive Officer at Mubadala Health, the integrated healthcare network of Mubadala Investment Company. There, he played a key role in launching Mubadala Health as an independent entity, growing and integrating its network of facilities. He focused on enhancing patient experience, pursuing innovative solutions, driving sector-wide collaboration, and forging global partnerships to boost clinical outcomes.
Al Nowais joined Mubadala Investment Company (MIC) in 2007, where he oversaw international hospitality projects across the United States, the Middle East, and Asia. These projects included the Viceroy Hotel Group, Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts, and Rosewood Hotels and Resorts. He also served as Chief Administrative Officer of Cleveland Clinic Abu Dhabi, successfully directing diversified strategic functions.
Educational background Al Nowais is a Finance graduate from the American University Washington College of Law and holds certifications from Cornell University and Harvard Medical School, among others.
BACK TO TOP Name: Alexander Jankuloski
Rank: 08
Designation: CEO
Company: Kuwait Hospital
Country: Kuwait
Alexander Jankuloski has over 15 years of experience in healthcare management, driven by his belief that personal leadership is essential to improving patient care. His background as a nurse has given him invaluable insight into the experiences of patients and their families within healthcare organisations. This perspective keeps him grounded and focused on the importance of patient-centred care.
Leadership and achievements Jankuloski has extensive experience across the Gulf Region and has spent the last nine years in Chief Executive roles, successfully leading organisations through clinical, reputational, and financial turnarounds. Since July 2020, he has served as the CEO of Kuwait Hospital, a leading private healthcare organisation in Kuwait.
Company overview Located in Sabah As Salim, Kuwait Hospital employs over 700 health professionals, operates 12 theatres, and has more than 140 patient rooms and over 40 specialities. Founded in 2005, the hospital achieved a significant milestone in 2019 when the Swedish healthcare provider GHP took over its operations, further solidifying its commitment to excellence in patient care.
Commitment to excellence Kuwait Hospital is dedicated to the well-being and satisfaction of its patients. The hospital continuously strives to raise the bar of excellence in services and safety. Its Performance Development & Innovation Department focuses on healthcare innovation and digitalisation, ensuring that patients are well-informed about the hospital’s services and treatments, improving care quality, ensuring a safe environment for clients and employees, and upholding international healthcare industry standards.
Innovation and education The hospital’s multidisciplinary committees engage all levels of management, from the Chief Medical Officer to healthcare professionals, in the pursuit of excellence. The hospital invests in employees’ continuing education and training while conducting insightful research in the healthcare and medical fields.
Organisational culture Kuwait Hospital’s unique organisational culture is built on the foundation of safety, quality, trust, and innovation, with patient and community well-being at its core. The hospital offers advanced services, including transoesophageal echocardiograms, MAKO Smart Robotics, and Brainlab Robotic Systems.
Previous roles and vision In his role as CEO, Jankuloski has brought a wealth of expertise and vision to Kuwait Hospital. Before joining Kuwait Hospital, he was the CEO at Oasis Hospital, now recognised as Kanad Hospital. Under his leadership, Kuwait Hospital continues to grow and evolve, remaining firmly committed to delivering exceptional healthcare services to the community.
Jankuloski emphasises the importance of soft skills in leadership, such as self-regulation, understanding oneself in high-stress situations, and guiding teams through challenges. He believes that healthcare is fundamentally a people business, with success hinging on being attractive to both patients and employees.
BACK TO TOP Name: Sherif Beshara
Rank: 09
Designation: Group CEO
Company: Mohamed & Obaid AlMulla Group of Companies
Country: UAE
Sherif Beshara is an accomplished leader with extensive experience in the legal industry. Holding a Master’s degree in International Law, his career spans over a decade with significant roles as a legal counsel, Chairman, and currently, Group CEO of Mohamed & Obaid AlMulla Group of Companies. His expertise covers diverse fields including finance, aviation, and corporate sectors, advising CEOs on airline matters, major joint ventures, and uninsured litigations.
Leadership and transformation Since assuming the role of Group CEO in 2018, Beshara has been instrumental in leading the transformation of Mohamed & Obaid AlMulla Group from a family-run business to a corporate entity. His leadership includes guiding the group’s vision, developing internal audit and corporate compliance programmes, and participating in formulating general management policy. “As one of the UAE’s most respected family-owned businesses, the Mohamed & Obaid AlMulla Group’s growth and dynamism over 70 years have been driven by foresight, excellence, and innovation”, Beshara explains.
Company overview American Hospital Dubai was established in 1996 by the Mohamed & Obaid AlMulla Group with the vision of bringing American-standard healthcare to the UAE and the wider region. Since its inception, the hospital has positioned itself as a premier healthcare institution, offering world-class, evidence-based primary, secondary, and selected tertiary medical services.
Innovations and milestones Defined by cutting-edge technology and innovation, American Hospital Dubai prides itself on a team of physicians who are American Board Certified or equivalent. The hospital provides comprehensive treatment and care across more than 40 medical and surgical specialities. Its mission is to improve lives through the highest quality healthcare and leadership in progressive medicine, while its vision is to nurture healthier communities through research and innovation.
Accreditation and network Since its founding, American Hospital Dubai has reached several key milestones. In 2000, it became the first hospital in the Middle East and the second globally to receive the prestigious JCI accreditation. In 2016, it joined the Mayo Clinic Care Network (MCCN), becoming the first healthcare organisation in the Middle East to do so.
Most recently, in 2023, American Hospital Dubai introduced the first and only autologous stem cell transplant department in Dubai, becoming the first private hospital in the UAE to offer in-house stem cell transplants using patients’ own stem cells without the need for a donor.
Leadership vision American Hospital Dubai remains at the forefront of medical research, innovation, and patient care, continuing to set benchmarks in healthcare excellence in the region. Sherif Beshara’s leadership and vision continue to propel the Mohamed & Obaid AlMulla Group towards new heights.
His dedication to innovation, training, and sustainability ensures that the group remains a key player in the healthcare sector, delivering exceptional services and setting new standards for the region. Under his guidance, the group is well-positioned to continue its legacy of excellence and contribute significantly to the UAE’s development.
BACK TO TOP Name: Zaid S. Al Khayyat
Rank: 10
Designation: Managing Director
Company: Al Khayyat Investments (AKI)
Country: UAE
Zaid S. Al Khayyat stands at the forefront of AKI’s next chapter of growth and transformation. As Managing Director, he oversees AKI’s strategic direction, delivers on the company’s growth visions, and drives continuous evolution within the organisation.
Building on the legacy and founding principles established by Dr Saad F. Al Khayyat, Chairman of AKI, Zaid cultivates a culture of excellence and innovation that has allowed the company to achieve new pinnacles of success. With a deep understanding of the regional business landscape, Zaid actively engages AKI’s partners and customers, being truly invested in such relationships.
Company history and growth Founded in 1982 by Dr Saad F. Al Khayyat, AKI has grown from a single pharmaceutical company in Dubai into a diversified business across the Middle East. Dr Saad’s entrepreneurial vision, people-first approach, and steadfast belief in family values continue to be the driving forces behind AKI’s forward momentum. Today, the company is renowned for delivering specialist products, intelligence, and services that enable people to lead healthier and more active lives.
Leadership and expansion Under Zaid’s leadership, AKI has continued its tradition of growth and diversification. The company operates across multiple sectors spanning pharmaceuticals, medical equipment, retail, food and non-food consumer goods, fitness, automotive, environmental services, and contracting. Zaid has also spearheaded AKI’s geographical expansion, successfully entering markets such as Saudi Arabia and Egypt, while expanding the company’s presence in Oman, all as part of a broader strategy for the MENA region.
A holistic approach to health AKI Healthcare stands at the forefront of the healthcare and wellness industry, supporting communities to lead happier and healthier lives. With a workforce of over 1000 medical professionals and more than 4,000 annual pharma registrations, AKI Healthcare continues to advance the industry by persistently innovating and expanding its services to meet the evolving needs of its customers.
In alignment with the UAE’s vision to become a global medical hub, AKI Healthcare operates through three core divisions: AKI Medlab, AKI Pharma, and BinSina Pharmacy. AKI’s Medlab division is a trusted and sought-after partner of cutting-edge medical equipment and consumables.
AKI Pharma has solidified its position in the industry, with its success inspired by a patient-centric approach. Providing an extensive range of advanced products, AKI Pharma holds long-standing partnerships with many of the world’s leading pharmaceutical companies, achieving record sales growth in 2024 and the highest market share for consumer healthcare products for three consecutive years in the UAE.
Meanwhile, BinSina Pharmacy – founded in 1965 – is one of the company’s flagship brands and the UAE’s first pharmacy chain. Today, BinSina Pharmacy sets the standard for quality and customer experience. In the past year alone, BinSina Pharmacy has expanded its reach with new branches in locations across the UAE and Oman, enhancing accessibility and convenience. BinSina has also contributed to the UAE Ministry of Health and Prevention’s Tatmeen platform, enhancing pharmaceutical tracking and public health security.
Additionally, it has broadened its network to include a myriad of local insurance companies. BinSina Pharmacy is constantly introducing innovative patient care services, including video consultations, advanced bone density diagnostics, and the opening of Diabetes Care Centres in Dubai and Abu Dhabi, all of which underscore its commitment to improving healthcare services and patient safety.
AKI’s dedication to innovation in healthcare excellence is reflected in its active participation in major healthcare conferences like DUPHAT and Arab Health.
BACK TO TOP Name: Alisha Moopen
Rank: 11
Designation: Deputy Managing Director
Company: Aster DM Healthcare
Country: UAE
Alisha Moopen serves as the Deputy Managing Director of Aster DM Healthcare. Since joining the company as a Director in 2013, she has played a pivotal role in guiding the direction and development of the company, particularly in spearheading the group’s expansion into new markets.
In recognition of her contributions to healthcare, Moopen was elected by the World Economic Forum as a Young Global Leader in 2018. This accolade has inducted her into a five-year programme that brings together like-minded individuals committed to tackling the world’s main challenges, with healthcare being a primary focus.
Educational background Moopen is a Chartered Accountant from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland (ICAS) and previously worked with Ernst & Young. She graduated with distinction in Finance & Accounting from the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. Her life philosophy, “Healthiness is Happiness,” reflects her commitment to enabling quality healthcare globally, characterised by compassion, precision, and excellence.
Focus on women empowerment and mental health Dedicated to the causes of women empowerment and mental health, Moopen believes in workforce diversity and the strength found in differences. She has actively worked to improve the representation of women in leadership roles, launching the Women in Leadership programme at Aster DM Healthcare, which empowers talented female employees through training and growth opportunities.
Philanthropy and social welfare Moopen is also a philanthropist, serving as a trustee of the Aster DM Foundation and participating in social welfare initiatives through the Aster Volunteers programme. The programme bridges the gap between those willing to help and those in need. Her focus is on ensuring humanity benefits from scientific advances and personal lifestyle choices, maintaining physical and mental health, and leveraging technology to enhance health outcomes through precision medicine, connected care, and artificial intelligence.
Company overview Since its inception in 1987, Aster DM Healthcare has grown from a single medical centre to a performance-driven healthcare enterprise. Today, it comprises over 366 medical establishments, including 34 hospitals, 131 clinics, and 502 pharmacies across seven countries. This expansion cements Aster DM Healthcare as a leading healthcare authority in the Middle East and India, and one of the largest and fastest-growing conglomerates in the MENA region.
Portfolio and network Aster DM Healthcare boasts an expansive portfolio that includes hospitals, clinics, pharmacies, diagnostic centres, educational institutions, healthcare management, and healthcare support systems. Headquartered in Dubai, the Aster DM network now encompasses over 19,657 employees, including doctors, nurses, and other healthcare professionals.
BACK TO TOP Name: Jobilal M. Vavachan
Rank: 12
Designation: CEO – Middle East and Africa (outside KSA)
Company: Cigna Healthcare
Country: UAE
Jobilal M. Vavachan is the CEO of LIFE Health Care Group, a position he assumed in 2021. His journey with LIFE commenced in 1996, where he started as a Retail Operations Manager, playing a key role in the company’s growth over the years. Prior to re-joining LIFE, Vavachan served as the CEO of Aster Pharmacy from 2013 to 2021, where he significantly contributed to its expansion and success.
Leadership and strategic oversight Vavachan’s strategic oversight has been instrumental in defining and executing strategies that have transformed LIFE into the largest pharmacy network in the UAE. He also led Aster and the Access clinic network, serving approximately 4. 5 million patients annually.
Educational background Vavachan holds a degree in Pharmacy from the University of Bangalore and is a licensed pharmacist. Vavachan’s strengths include strategic rigour, creating shareholder value, business development and growth, planning and execution, business transformation, change management and adaptability, a focus on digital and technology, and developing leaders from within. His operational knowledge in pharmacy retailing and keen interest in the training and development of human resources have been pivotal in LIFE’s success.
Company overview LIFE began its journey as a retail pharmacy group in 1996. Today, LIFE has over 300 retail outlets, including pharmacies, healthcare hypermarkets, and health and wellness stores, and caters to an annual customer base of over ten million walk-ins. By 2025, it aims to expand its number of outlets to 1,500 and employ a workforce of over 3,000.
Innovations and industry leadership LIFE Health Care Group has introduced many innovative concepts in pharmaceutical distribution in the region. These include the first Healthcare Hypermarket in the GCC, the first Drive-Thru pharmacy in the Middle East, and the first Shop-in-Shop concept in healthcare.
Over the years, LIFE has maintained its position as an industry leader by adapting to changes in pharmacy retailing and retail management. LIFE is also the largest healthcare retailer in New Dubai, with the highest number of 24/7 pharmacies in the UAE, and represents over 150 exclusive principal brands globally.
BACK TO TOP Name: Leah Cotterill
Rank: 13
Designation:
Company:
Country:
In July 2024, Cigna Healthcare, a leading global health services company, appointed Leah Cotterill as the new Chief Executive Officer for Cigna Healthcare – Middle East and Africa (outside KSA). Cotterill is the first female CEO to lead an international health insurance company in the UAE, marking a significant milestone for the industry.
Extensive experience Leah Cotterill brings over 25 years of experience in the health and wellness industry to her new role. Prior to becoming CEO, she served as the Chief Distribution Officer for Cigna Healthcare Middle East and Africa, where she led market growth teams, oversaw local International Private Medical Insurance (IPMI) operations, drove market development strategy, and addressed the needs of various buyer segments.
Career journey Cotterill’s journey at Cigna Healthcare began in 2008, during the early stages of the Middle East business. She initially worked in Sales before building the Client Management capability in the region. In 2013, she moved to the US to lead the Client Management Team for Global Health Benefits in North America.
She later returned to the Middle East to lead the global client migration to Cigna Healthcares’s new operating model following the acquisition of Zurich Insurance Middle East. Before joining Cigna Healthcare, she worked at AXA PPP Healthcare in roles spanning customer service operations to business development, managing growth and service delivery for UK-based corporate clients.
Vision and achievements In her role as CEO, Cotterill will drive Cigna Healthcare’s strategic growth and expand access to high-quality healthcare solutions across the UAE and other key markets in the Middle East and Africa (outside KSA). She has been instrumental in launching SmartCare by Cigna, the region’s first open-access network health insurance product, and played a crucial role in the company’s geographic expansion into Africa.
Cotterill actively champions gender equity, diversity, and inclusion, and is a strong supporter of Cigna Healthcare’s ‘Women in Networking’ (WIN) initiative. She holds an MBA with distinction from Hult International Business School, graduating with the prestigious Hodges Scholar.
Cigna Healthcare Middle East Cigna Healthcare boasts a 225-year heritage in healthcare, with 60 years of global service and 20 years in the Middle East. The company has a robust global and local network, providing access to over 3,000 healthcare providers in the UAE and over 5,000 in the Middle East. Cigna Healthcare prides itself on its 24/7/365 customer service, with an 86 percent customer satisfaction rating.
BACK TO TOP Name: Akbar Moideen Thumbay
Rank: 14
Designation: Vice President and Board Member
Company: Thumbay Healthcare and Thumbay Group
Country: UAE
Akbar Moideen Thumbay is a prominent figure in the direction and growth of Thumbay Group, a diversified international business established in 1997, and headquartered in DIFC. Akbar plays a key role in shaping the organisation’s direction, overseeing and expanding Thumbay Healthcare’s operations, while also serving as co-chair of the GMU Academic Health System and a board member of Thumbay Group.
Education and professional background Akbar’s educational journey spans across India, the UAE, Italy, and the US, providing him with a well-rounded and diverse academic foundation. A distinguished alumni of the Harvard Global Health Care Leaders Program, his professional career began with a New York-based company, where he developed his skills before joining Thumbay Group, the multinational business founded by his father, Dr. Thumbay Moideen, Founder President of Thumbay Group.
Akbar’s business acumen and proactive approach rapidly advanced his career within the organisation, ultimately leading to his current role as Vice President of Thumbay Group’s Healthcare Division.
Role and responsibilities In his capacity as Vice President, Akbar oversees Thumbay Group’s healthcare operations across the UAE, including Thumbay Hospitals, clinics, and day care centres in Ajman, Fujairah, Sharjah, Umm Al Quwain, and Ras Al Khaimah. He also manages the extensive network of Thumbay Labs, Zo & Mo Opticals, and Thumbay Pharmacy outlets.
Under his leadership, Thumbay Healthcare has become the largest private-academic teaching hospital group in the UAE, serving patients from 175 countries, treating 11 million patients, and conducting over 80,000 deliveries. The healthcare division operates seven academic hospitals with 800 inpatient beds, five family clinics/medical centres, five diagnostic labs, and numerous retail pharmacy outlets, including the first drive-through pharmacy options.
Notably, Thumbay Healthcare was recognised as the prestigious 5th entity in the world with JCI Enterprise Accreditation, highlighting the quality and safety standards maintained in their clinical practice.
Vision and achievements A significant aspect of Akbar’s strategy is the development of Thumbay Hospitals within the medical tourism sector, attracting patients from Africa and Southern Europe. The hospital’s advanced healthcare services and state-of-the-art facilities cater to a diverse clientele, offering everything from routine executive check-ups to complex surgeries.
Akbar’s leadership and vision have earned him several accolades, including the Young Leader Shaping the Future award at the Stars of Business Leadership Awards in 2017 and the Champion of Change award at the seventh annual MENA HR Excellence Awards in 2015. He was also featured among the 25 Young Business Leaders in the UAE in the coffee table book Gen Next Indians. Additionally, the American University of Sharjah recognised his career by inducting him into its Alumni Wall of Fame.
BACK TO TOP Name: Mutasim Alireza
Rank: 15
Designation: CEO and Board Member
Company: Magrabi Hospitals & Centers
Country: Saudi Arabia
Mutasim Alireza stands as a testament of excellence in the realm of eye healthcare. As the CEO and a Board member of Magrabi Hospitals & Centers, the largest eye care network in the Middle East and North Africa, he has overseen a remarkable expansion. The network, which serves over two million patients and performs more than 200,000 sight-preserving surgeries annually, is a testament to his visionary leadership.
Expanding horizons During his 27-year tenure as CEO and partner, Alireza has led the expansion of Magrabi Hospitals & Centers to include 34 hospitals and centres. Under his guidance, the network has achieved top scores in local and international quality accreditations. In addition to this, he has successfully integrated dentistry and other services into its healthcare platform. Currently, his primary focus is on digitalisation and enhancing patient experience, which are key cornerstones of the company’s mission.
Leadership beyond Magrabi Alireza also serves as the Chairman of the Board of AMI Saudi Arabia LTD, a leading hospital operation and management company. AMI managed the King Khaled Eye Specialist Hospital in Riyadh for 18 years and other state-owned hospitals. Additionally, he is a board member of Imdad, a prominent company in aesthetic medicine in the Middle East.
Contributions to Saudi healthcare Alireza has been instrumental in advancing healthcare standards in Saudi Arabia. Serving on the Makkah region Healthcare Committee under the governor’s backing, the council played a critical role in initiating healthcare accreditation in the country, inspiring regional counterparts to follow suit. He also presided over the Health Services Committee at the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce and continues to contribute as a member of the National Healthcare Committee of the Saudi Chambers of Commerce.
Philanthropy and education In addition to his healthcare contributions, Alireza co-founded the Ebsar Charity Organisation, dedicated to rehabilitating individuals with vision impairments. His commitment to education is evident, along with his wife and partners, he established NUN Academy, a bilingual secondary school in Jeddah, in collaboration with Kunskapsskolan of Sweden. The institution aims to prepare students for lives that are locally rooted yet globally connected.
Magrabi Hospitals & Centers – history and evolution Founded in 1955 as the first specialised eye hospital in the MENA region, Magrabi Hospitals & Centers has evolved into a renowned network of specialised facilities. It pioneered sub-specialisation in ophthalmology in the Middle East and Africa, significantly enhancing the skills and expertise of ophthalmologists. Magrabi was also the first in the region to perform several procedures, including corneal transplant surgery in 1968, intraocular lens implantation in 1972, and laser-assisted cataract surgery in 2011.
Current operations and achievements Today, Magrabi Hospitals & Centers employs over 400 doctors and more than 1,200 clinicians, all dedicated to ethical patient care. The hospitals focus on safety, high-quality services, and cost-effectiveness, continuing its legacy of innovation and excellence in eye healthcare.
BACK TO TOP Name: Basel Ziyadeh
Rank: 16
Designation: CEO
Company: Julphar (Gulf Pharmaceutical Industries)
Country: UAE
With a clear strategic direction and over 25 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry, Basel Ziyadeh, CEO of Julphar, is leading the company through its transformational journey. Under his leadership, Julphar aims to provide health solutions both regionally and globally, ensuring that world-class care remains at the heart of its operations.
Previously, Basel Ziyadeh was the CEO of Tabuk Pharmaceuticals, where he played a vital role in transforming the business and significantly expanding the company’s profitability. He also established key partnerships during his tenure. Prior to Tabuk, Basel held several leadership positions at Hikma Pharmaceuticals over a 15-year period, serving across various functions and geographies.
He led Hikma’s branded strategy formulation and execution in the MENA region after overseeing the company’s full operations in the GCC and the Levant. Additionally, he has served as an advisor and board member for several pharmaceutical entities in Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, Sudan, Iraq, and Lebanon.
Educational background Basel holds a Bachelor’s degree in Biological Sciences from the University of Jordan and an MBA from the American University of Beirut.
Company overview Established in 1980 under the guidance of Sheikh Saqr Bin Mohammed Al Qasimi, the late ruler of Ras Al Khaimah, Julphar delivers high-quality, innovative and affordable healthcare solutions worldwide. With roughly 2,500 employees, Julphar distributes its products to more than 50 countries across five continents, while its 12 internationally accredited facilities in the Middle East produce one million boxes of medicine a day.
Product range and financial performance Julphar is among the largest manufacturers of insulin globally and the only one in the UAE. It offers a vast range of medicines targeting major therapeutic segments and has achieved $220 million in global sales, with a market capitalisation of $400 million.
Subsidiaries Julphar’s subsidiaries include Planet Pharmacies and MenaCool. Planet Pharmacies, established in 2007, is a vital part of Julphar’s supply chain. As a wholesaler and one of the leading pharmacy chains in the region, it serves a range of segments within the healthcare sector, including pharmaceuticals, nutraceuticals and medical devices.
Today, Planet Pharmacies has a retail and distribution presence in the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Oman, with 200 pharmacies employing more than 800 people. MenaCool, Julphar’s transport and shipping division, ensures the timely delivery of products by land, sea and air across the globe.
Offering 24/7 service dispatch by road to countries throughout the Middle East and Africa, MenaCool’s fleet of 40 trucks is supported by air and sea freight for cold chain products, ensuring medicines are delivered efficiently from origin to endpoint.
Leadership and vision Under Basel Ziyadeh’s leadership, Julphar continues to thrive, maintaining its commitment to delivering high-quality healthcare solutions and expanding its global reach.
BACK TO TOP Name: Pelin Incesu
Rank: 17
Designation: Area Vice President
Company: AstraZeneca
Country: MEA
Pelin Incesu, a qualified psychiatrist, began her career with AstraZeneca in her native Türkiye in 2000. Over the past 24 years, she has held several pivotal roles within the company across various locations. Notably, she became the first Turkish woman to assume the role of AstraZeneca Country President, a milestone she proudly describes as “a glass ceiling I was proud to break. ” Incesu has also served as AstraZeneca’s Vice President of Commercial Strategy, International.
Leadership and achievements Since 2020, Incesu has been leading AstraZeneca’s strategy and growth in the Middle East and Africa (MEA). Within her first year in this role, the company recorded revenues of $1. 2 billion from operations in the region. Her team, comprising 2,500 dedicated individuals, delivers solutions for patients dealing with health issues ranging from cancer and cardiovascular conditions to various respiratory and rare diseases.
During the pandemic, Incesu successfully navigated the company through the challenges, with AstraZeneca becoming the leading provider of Covid-19 vaccines to developing countries through the COVAX initiative, covering 61 countries in the MEA region.
Recent roles and initiatives Incesu assumed the role of Area Vice President of Middle East & Africa in 2020 after serving as Vice President of Commercial Strategy, International from 2017. Under her leadership, AstraZeneca recorded over $1 billion in sales in 2022 in the MEA region and launched significant initiatives like the AZ Forest Initiative in Ghana and Rwanda.
Incesu oversaw the distribution of AstraZeneca’s COVID-19 vaccine across 61 MEA countries and announced the launch of the Cancer Care Africa programme at COP27. Additionally, she is the international leader sponsor for AstraZeneca’s Global Inclusion & Diversity Council.
Commitment and recognition Throughout her career, Incesu has demonstrated remarkable leadership and strategic acumen, driving significant growth and transformation within AstraZeneca. Her commitment to delivering world-class healthcare solutions and her efforts in fostering inclusion and diversity have made her a respected leader in the pharmaceutical industry.
Company overview AstraZeneca is a British-Swedish biopharmaceutical company with medicine sales in more than 130 countries, making it one of the largest drug companies in the world. AstraZeneca’s main research and development areas include oncology, rare diseases, and biopharmaceutical intervention, with numerous ongoing projects.
The company was founded on June 17, 1992, and is headquartered in Cambridge, the United Kingdom. Today, the company employs over 89,000 people, has a revenue of $47. 6 billion, assets amounting to $102. 3 billion, and profits of $6. 3 billion.
BACK TO TOP Name: Naser Al Yammahi
Rank: 18
Designation: Deputy CEO
Company: Hayat Biotech
Country: UAE
Naser Al Yammahi, the Deputy CEO of UAE-based Hayat Biotech, brings over 15 years of expertise in both the public and private sectors. In his current role, he focuses on advancing the UAE’s capabilities in biotechnology and life sciences. Al Yammahi has played a key role in overseeing the successful rollout of the 4Humanity clinical trials, which led to the development of Hayat-Vax, the first Covid-19 vaccine in the MENA region. Additionally, he has developed strategic partnerships with 64 countries, significantly enhancing the global reach of Hayat Biotech.
Previous roles and achievements Before joining Hayat Biotech, Al Yammahi managed strategic partnerships at G42, showcasing his leadership in business engagement strategies and high-value procurement activities. His tenure as the acting Executive Director at the UAE Ministry of State Office of H. E. Dr. Sultan Al Jaber highlights his contributions to identifying cross-sectoral opportunities and shaping policies.
Company overview Al Yammahi’s journey with Hayat Biotech began in March 2021. Under his leadership, the company has made significant strides in biotechnology and life sciences. Hayat Biotech, founded in 2021, emerged as a beacon of innovation, driven by a passion to redefine the future of life.
Combining rich medical legacy with cutting-edge expertise, Hayat Biotech is committed to pioneering biotechnological solutions that empower individuals worldwide. The company’s mission is to revolutionise healthcare through the seamless integration of science and technology, transcending limitations to elevate the standards of life for generations to come.
National vaccine security During the unprecedented time of the Covid-19 pandemic, Hayat Biotech played a crucial role in the UAE’s national vaccine security. In 2020, the company provided the UAE with access to the latest in vaccine technology, contributing to the country’s high immunisation rates and low infection rates.
Global distribution Hayat Biotech has been instrumental in the global distribution of preventive medicine. Through strategic partnerships and global distribution networks, Hayat Biotech has successfully delivered to 64 countries, continuing its pledge to reimagine the future of life.
Recognition and awards Al Yammahi’s contributions have not gone unnoticed. In March 2024, he was honoured with the 2024 Chinese Government Friendship Award by His Excellency Li Quang, the Prime Minister of China. The prestigious accolade, the highest established by the Chinese Government for foreign dignitaries, recognises Al Yammahi’s efforts in fostering collaboration between the UAE and China, particularly in the healthcare and industrial sectors.
Headquarters Headquartered in ADGM Square, Al Khatem Tower, Abu Dhabi, Hayat Biotech continues to lead the way in biotechnology and life sciences under Al Yammahi’s strategic guidance.
BACK TO TOP Name: Dr. Bashar Bizrah
Rank: 19
Designation: Senior Consultant, Specialist in Rhinoplasty and Otolaryngology
Company: Bizrahmed
Country: UAE, Saudi Arabia, and the UK
Dr. Bashar Bizrah is a highly experienced surgeon in rhinoplasty and otolaryngology, practising in the Middle East and the UK. With over 30 years of experience, Dr. Bizrah has performed over 49,000 facial plastic surgeries, including 40,000 rhinoplasty procedures, a figure unmatched by any surgeon practising today.
Dr. Bizrah is renowned as a pioneer in the field of rhinoplasty, adopting a closed preservation rhinoplasty approach that leaves minimal incision marks and uses local anaesthesia with sedation for fast recovery. He has been classified in the USA as one of the top 10 influencers in rhinoplasty surgery worldwide.
Academic contributions Dr. Bizrah is the author of the textbook “Rhinoplasty & Facial Aesthetic Surgery,” recognised by The American and European Academies of Facial Plastic Surgery as a key teaching reference. The textbook, which has sold out worldwide, consists of over 1,000 illustrations and is the first of its kind authored in the Middle East.
In addition to his textbook, Dr. Bizrah established Bizrah Academy, where he holds webinars and uploads second-by-second surgical videos on his YouTube channel, Rhinoplasty Bizrah Academy and Ask-DrBizrah, to share his surgical techniques with surgeons worldwide. His patients include luminaries, dignitaries, royalty, and celebrities from the Middle East and England.
Qualifications and memberships Dr. Bizrah’s qualifications include a Fellowship of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (FRCS), certification by the Royal College of Surgeons of England in rhinoplasty, facial plastic surgery, and blepharoplasty, and full GMC Registration on the Specialist Register. He is also a member of the American Society of Plastic Surgeons and the American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery (AAFPRS).
Company overview Bizrahmed is a leading cosmetic centre with branches in Dubai, London, and Jeddah. The centre specialises in rhinoplasty, hair transplant, and facial and body contouring. Named after Dr. Bashar Bizrah, Bizrahmed’s team of highly qualified and internationally recognised doctors aims to shape local communities’ perceptions of plastic surgery and educate them on self-care principles for a better and healthier life.
BACK TO TOP Name: Akram Bouchenaki
Rank: 20
Designation: CEO
Company: Abdul Latif Jameel Health
Country: Saudi Arabia
Akram Bouchenaki serves as the Chief Executive Officer of Abdul Latif Jameel Health, a division of Abdul Latif Jameel that focuses on accelerating access to modern medical care and addressing unmet medical needs in developing markets worldwide. Abdul Latif Jameel Health is part of a collective of independent international, family-owned, and diversified businesses, founded in 1945 in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, by the late Abdul Latif Jameel.
Experience With 25 years of operational and strategic roles in the pharmaceutical and healthcare sectors, Bouchenaki brings a wealth of knowledge to Abdul Latif Jameel Health. His career spans global leadership roles in large pharmaceutical companies and top California-based biotech firms, where he was an Executive Director for Africa, overseeing the continent’s largest markets.
Bouchenaki possesses extensive knowledge and experience in both generic and branded medicines, having worked in established and emerging markets worldwide. His experience includes significant markets in Africa, Brazil, and Mexico, where he co-founded a rapidly growing start-up to commercialise medicines in Latin America. Bouchenaki holds a Doctorate in Pharmacy from Université de Paris V, France. He has lived and worked in nine different countries across five continents and is fluent in French, Spanish, Arabic, Portuguese, and English.
About Abdul Latif Jameel Abdul Latif Jameel operates across major industry sectors, aiming to positively shape the future of core industries driving the global economy. These sectors include investments, mobility, financial services, energy and environmental services, health, and a diversified range of other operations from consumer products and property development to professional services.
With corporate representation offices around the globe, Abdul Latif Jameel has an operational presence in more than 35 countries, across six continents and employs over 11,000 people of more than 65 nationalities. The company has deep roots in the Middle East, North Africa, and Turkey (MENAT region), making it a powerful partner for businesses looking to enter these markets.
Legacy of trust and innovation From its modest beginnings 75 years ago as a small trading business and Toyota distributorship in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, Abdul Latif Jameel has grown into a diversified conglomerate with extensive operations infrastructure. This includes the Abdul Latif Jameel Clinic for Machine Learning in Health (Jameel Clinic), part of Community Jameel’s successful partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Jameel Clinic drives research at the intersection of computer science and biology, commercialising new technologies to deliver them to frontline medical practitioners.
Community Jameel also partnered with Imperial College London to co-found The Abdul Latif Jameel Institute for Disease and Emergency Analytics (Jameel Institute), underlining its commitment to sharing best practices among global health researchers and experts in data analytics, epidemiology, and economics to combat disease threats worldwide.
Harnessing innovative technologies in the healthcare space, the Abdul Latif Jameel Hospital in Jeddah was the first centre in the Middle East for physical rehabilitation and became a pioneer in using robotic exoskeletons for the treatment of spinal injuries. This initiative has led to Abdul Latif Jameel becoming the distributor for the GCC region and establishing a regional training centre.
BACK TO TOP Name: Ayman Tamer
Rank: 21
Designation: Executive Chairman
Company: Tamer Group
Country: Saudi Arabia
Ayman Tamer is a distinguished figure in the health industry, with memberships in the World Economic Forum Family Business Community and the Pharma Committee at the Jeddah Chamber of Commerce and Industry. His influence extends to board positions at SAJA and Arabio, and an honorary advisory role at Effat University. His numerous achievements are strengthened by Saudi Arabia’s favourable regulatory environment.
The evolution of the Tamer Group The Tamer Group, a family business with over a century of history, has evolved from a modest pharmacy into a multifaceted enterprise. Today, it boasts a diversified portfolio encompassing healthcare supply, manufacturing, logistics, e-commerce, consumer care, and IT solutions. With a workforce of 4,000, the Tamer Group is a key player in multiple sectors, offering a wide array of medical, pharmaceutical, and nutritional products and services throughout Saudi Arabia and the broader MENA region.
Embracing digital transformation In 2021, the Tamer Group reached a major milestone in its digital transformation journey with the acquisition of Mumzworld, an online platform for mothers, babies, and children. The Dubai-based start-up reaches 2. 5 million people across 20 countries and offers over 250,000 products. The acquisition paved the way for the launch of the Pharmaciaty e-commerce platform in December 2022, marking a significant shift towards business-to-consumer operations.
Leadership and commitment to excellence Under Ayman Tamer’s leadership, the company is driven by a commitment to personal wellness and public health, delivering products and services that enhance the well-being of individuals and communities. The group’s dedication to service excellence solidifies its status as a leading force in regional healthcare advancement. In 2023, the group partnered with the UK’s Open Medical to integrate digital transformation solutions within Saudi Arabia.
Pledge to environmental sustainability Environmental sustainability is another key focus for the Tamer Group. In 2023, the company embarked on a three-year journey to fully adopt sustainable energy investment metrics approved by the World Economic Forum. They aim to implement 45 percent of these metrics in the same year and 75 percent by the end of the next.
Future endeavours and technological innovation As the Tamer Group looks to the future, it continues to embrace transformation. With SAJA, the company plans to start producing sterilised surgical procedure trays in Jeddah in 2024 through a joint venture with Swedish medical products company Mölnlycke. Additionally, the group intends to diversify its product range to include food and beverages and female products, while staying up-to-date with the latest technological trends in medicine.
BACK TO TOP Name: Dr. Majid Ibrahim Al Fayyadh
Rank: 22
Designation: CEO
Company: King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre (KFSH&RC)
Country: Saudi Arabia
Since October 2017, His Excellency Dr. Majid Ibrahim Al Fayyadh has helmed King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre (KFSH&RC). Under his leadership, KFSH&RC has cemented its position as a beacon of advanced medical care, encompassing specialised centres in cardiology, neuroscience, and genomic medicine.
Key achievements and collaborations In 2022, KFSH&RC’s partnership with Oracle Cerner marked a significant milestone, focusing on collaborative research in data and AI. The same year, the KFSH&RC-Madinah mega project was honoured by the Project Management Institute as one of the top global projects in the large and mega category. Additionally, KFSH&RC-Riyadh plays a pivotal role in the International Cancer Genome Consortium, underlining its global impact in oncology.
Commitment to Vision 2030 Dr. Al Fayyadh, previously the Deputy Executive Director of Medical and Clinical Affairs, is a supporter of Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030. Guided by the Health Sector Transformation Programme, the focus has been on preventative care, clinical research, and the integration of advanced technologies to ensure superior patient care and experience.
Addressing healthcare challenges The Saudi healthcare market presents unique challenges, particularly with a growing population demanding innovative solutions and enhanced operational efficiency. Dr. Al Fayyadh’s leadership has been instrumental in fostering cross-sector partnerships, strengthening local talent, and driving clinical innovation. These efforts aim to position Saudi Arabia as a leader in healthcare, adopting new technologies, and achieving medical breakthroughs.
Excellence in patient care KFSH&RC’s commitment to excellence is evident in its role as the national referral centre for complex diseases. The hospital sees around 10,000 patients daily across its branches in Riyadh, Jeddah, and Madinah. With a diverse staff of approximately 16,468 from over 60 countries, KFSH&RC embodies a global standard of healthcare excellence. In February 2023, it was ranked number one in the MENA region and placed in the top 20 globally by Brand Finance’s Academic Medical Centres study.
Strategic partnerships Strategic partnerships have been vital to KFSH&RC’s growth. Recent collaborations include a partnership with Roche to enhance research capabilities and an alliance with Oracle-Cerner to advance technological developments in the healthcare sector. Other significant agreements include those with the Saudi Authority for Data and Artificial Intelligence and international institutions such as Johns Hopkins Medicine International and Massachusetts General Hospital.
Technological advancements The launch of the Capacity and Command Centre in 2022, which utilises AI and predictive analytics, has significantly improved patient management and operational efficiency. At LEAP23, KFSH&RC showcased AI-driven systems designed to optimise operations and enhance patient care. KFSH&RC is also pioneering virtual reality programmes to support children with autism and exploring the potential of the metaverse to overcome healthcare access limitations.
Future outlook Looking ahead, KFSH&RC remains committed to the goals of Vision 2030, striving to offer world-class care and continue its trajectory of innovation and excellence in the global healthcare landscape.
BACK TO TOP Name: Hady El Khoury
Rank: 23
Designation: Regional General Manager
Company: GE HealthCare
Country: MENEAT
Hady El Khoury, with over 20 years of experience, is a keen advocate for integrating technology into healthcare to support patients across various markets. His career commenced with GE HealthCare in Marketing in France, followed by product and service management roles in Northern Europe. Demonstrating his expertise and leadership, he was appointed Northern Europe regional services sales manager. In 2015, he relocated to Dubai, UAE, emphasising his dedication to bolstering the region’s healthcare infrastructure and expanding GE HealthCare’s footprint.
Since moving to Dubai, El Khoury has held key leadership positions, including Director of Commercial Operations, Services General Manager for Emerging Markets, and Chief Operating Officer for Europe, Middle East, and Africa. In these roles, he has driven growth strategies and expanded market share in critical regions such as the Middle East, Northeast Africa, Turkey, and South-Central Asia. His leadership has been pivotal in enhancing healthcare infrastructure and GE HealthCare’s presence in these markets.
Educational background El Khoury’s educational background underpins his career success. He graduated from Saint Joseph University of Beirut with a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration and holds a diploma in Economics from Panthéon-Assas University in Paris and a Master’s degree in Management & Corporate Finance from SKEMA Business School in Nice, France.
Leadership and “genba” El Khoury believes effective leaders excel in three areas: clearly outlining strategic directions and priorities, fostering an open, transparent, and inclusive work environment, and understanding the business to remove obstacles for their teams. When employees feel supported, they are more engaged and motivated, leading to better business outcomes and a greater community impact in healthcare.
GE HealthCare embraces the principle of Lean, including “going to Genba,” where leaders spend time with frontline staff to gain firsthand insights and support real-world decision-making. This approach ensures leaders are connected with the operational realities of their teams.
GE HealthCare’s impact GE HealthCare, with approximately 50,000 employees in over 160 countries, is dedicated to fostering an inclusive culture of respect, transparency, and integrity. The company holds over 11,000 patents and is a pioneer in innovative solutions, tackling current and future healthcare challenges.
GE HealthCare’s Edison intelligence platform enables clinicians to make faster, more informed decisions through intelligent devices, data, analytics, applications, and services. The company’s technology manages four million imaging, mobile, diagnostic, and monitoring devices worldwide, handling over two billion patient scans annually.
Leading healthcare into the future Investing $1 billion annually in R&D, GE HealthCare focuses on innovations in imaging, life care technologies, software, and AI. For instance, updating MR machines with AI-enabled software has reduced exam times from 40 minutes to 10 minutes, while improving image quality.
GE HealthCare leverages AI broadly across hospitals via the Edison cloud platform. The company also offers strategic support to health ministries, developing cost-effective solutions for public health challenges in areas like cardiovascular disease and cancer. By partnering with health ministries, GE HealthCare aims to significantly improve healthcare accessibility and outcomes in the region.
BACK TO TOP Name: Ihsan Almarzooqi
Rank: 24
Designation: Co-founder and Managing Director
Company: GluCare. Health
Country: UAE
Dr. Ihsan Almarzooqi is at the forefront of transforming diabetes management and metabolic health through the integration of digital therapeutics. Specialising in revolutionising traditional diabetes care, he focuses on providing patients with more effective and personalised solutions.
As a co-founder of GluCare. Health, a pioneering digital therapeutics company, Dr. Almarzooqi is dedicated to addressing the global metabolic health crisis and improving individuals’ overall well-being worldwide. Almarzooqi is also the co-founder of meta[bolic], a hybrid digital therapeutics company dedicated to addressing the global metabolic health crisis.
Tenure at Mubadala Healthcare Dr. Almarzooqi’s tenure as Director and Deputy Head at Mubadala Healthcare, spanning over a decade, played a pivotal role in shaping the organisation’s healthcare portfolio. His responsibilities included asset management, strategy development, financial performance, business expansion, and operational management.
He also served as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors for several healthcare institutions, including Healthpoint, Imperial College London Diabetes Centre, National Reference Laboratory, Tawam Molecular Imaging Centre, and Capital Health Screening Centre.
GluCare. Health’s innovative approach GluCare. Health operates on the belief that combining a human-centric patient approach with advanced technology leads to better and more efficient management of diabetes and metabolic syndrome. In 2022, GluCare. Health became the world’s first globally ICHOM-accredited facility, aspiring to report outcomes transparently with full accountability over its model of care.
The company employs a continuous remote data monitoring (RCDM) system, addressing the needs of patients across the Gulf Cooperation Council countries. This approach offers a comprehensive, real-time view of patients, making GluCare. Health one of the first healthcare providers to use a hyper-personalised, data-driven method for managing diabetes.
Comprehensive services and digital therapeutics GluCare. Health’s unique model includes early adoption of Digital Therapeutics (DTx), combined with wearable and connected technology, innovative in-clinic workflows, and a dedicated expert care team.
The clinic offers a wide range of services, including diabetes care, cardiology, thyroid disorders, male health, urology, female health, gynaecology, paediatric endocrinology, adult and paediatric obesity, and preventive health. By treating diabetes as a continuous condition, the use of digital therapeutics becomes integral to their standard care model for diabetics.
Leadership and team excellence Dr. Almarzooqi’s leadership ensures that GluCare. Health employs individuals who are genuinely passionate about diabetes management. The team consists of physicians, nurses, educators, and health coaches, all dedicated to providing exceptional care. Under his guidance, GluCare. Health is setting new standards in diabetes care and digital health, making significant strides in enhancing patient outcomes and revolutionising the healthcare landscape.
BACK TO TOP Name: John Ireland
Rank: 25
Designation: CEO
Company: Amanat Holdings
Country: UAE
John Ireland, appointed as CEO of Amanat Holdings in March 2024, brings a wealth of experience and expertise in finance, strategy, and business development across various industries. Throughout his career, Ireland has held significant leadership roles in real estate, media, and entertainment.
Prior to joining Amanat Holdings as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in 2021, he served as CFO for several prominent listed and private organisations, both locally and internationally. His extensive experience in financial management and strategic planning has been instrumental in driving growth and success for these companies.
Educational background and professional qualifications Ireland holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Management from the University of Exeter. As a qualified chartered accountant, his proficiency in financial analysis and accounting principles is a key asset for Amanat Holdings. His strong foundation in finance and strategic planning positions him to lead the company towards sustained growth in today’s competitive business landscape.
Vision for Amanat Holdings Amanat Holdings is an investor in the healthcare and education sectors. Under Ireland’s leadership, the company is focused on capitalising on growth opportunities in these critical areas. The healthcare platform consists of five specialised hospitals, providing approximately 450 beds across the UAE, KSA, and Bahrain. This positioning enables Amanat to meet the growing demand for quality healthcare services in the region.
Commitment to healthcare and education Ireland’s vision for Amanat Holdings focuses on continued investment in healthcare and education. In 2022, Amanat’s healthcare platform achieved an impressive $91 million in revenue, showcasing significant success in the healthcare industry across the UAE, Saudi Arabia, and Bahrain. By establishing specialised hospitals and concentrating on these sectors, Amanat is well-positioned to leverage the growth potential in healthcare and education.
Amanat’s healthcare platform includes the Cambridge Medical and Rehabilitation Center (CMRC), a leading post-acute care and rehabilitation provider in the UAE and KSA. It also includes Sukoon, a provider of long-term and post-acute care services, including extended critical care and home care medical services in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and Bahrain. Additionally, it includes the real estate assets of the Cambridge Medical and Rehabilitation Center in Abu Dhabi, UAE.
Amanat’s education platform features NEMA Holding, a leading provider of higher education in the UAE, and Middlesex University Dubai, the first overseas campus of the internationally renowned Middlesex University in London. It also includes the Human Development Company, the leading provider of special education and care services, covering educational, medical, and rehabilitation services in KSA, along with a small stake in BEGiN, a US-based, award-winning education technology company, and the real estate assets of the North London Collegiate School in Dubai, UAE.
Financial performance In Q1 2024, Amanat Holdings’ revenue grew by 21 percent year-on-year to $60. 48 million, driven by strong performances in both the Education and Healthcare platforms, which increased by 24 percent and 17 percent, respectively. The net profit before tax and zakat also saw an impressive increase of 18 percent year-on-year, reaching $14. 47 million in Q1 2024.
BACK TO TOP Name: Dr. Michael H. Fakih
Rank: 26
Designation: CEO and Group Medical Director
Company: Emirates Hospitals Group, Fakih IVF, IVF Michigan, FIRST IVF
Country: UAE, USA, Lebanon
With over 25 years of experience, Dr. Michael H. Fakih is a distinguished leader in the field of reproductive endocrinology. He has been instrumental in over 35,000 IVF deliveries, showcasing his expertise and commitment to innovation in reproductive techniques. Dr. Fakih obtained his MD from the American University of Beirut in 1981.
He completed his residency in Obstetrics and Gynaecology before pursuing a Clinical Fellowship in Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility at Yale University School of Medicine in the USA. He furthered his expertise with a Fellowship in Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility at the Medical University of South Carolina in 1986.
Recognised for his pioneering work, Dr Fakih was honoured in 2008 as one of the top 15 American Lebanese of all time in the category of Medicine.
Company overview Dr. Fakih is the CEO of Emirates Hospitals Group, one of the UAE’s most trusted integrated healthcare service providers. Emirates Hospitals Group operates an extensive portfolio of fully serviced hospitals, specialty clinics, urgent care centres, and pharmacies. The group offers a wide range of treatment options in every field of modern medicine and healthcare, backed by advanced technologies and a team of multidisciplinary doctors with rich regional and global knowledge.
Emirates Hospitals Group expansion The Emirates Hospitals Group continues to expand its presence in the GCC at a remarkable pace, strengthening its network through acquisitions and the development of new facilities across the GCC and other parts of the world. The group aims to achieve professional excellence in delivering quality care while adhering to regional and global standards in healthcare.
Vision and mission The mission of Emirates Hospitals Group is to provide high-quality, faster, better, friendlier, and safer services, consistent with the needs and beliefs of patients, employees, visitors, and vendors in a comfortable and secure environment. The vision is to be the highest quality multi-speciality private healthcare network of choice for patients, employees, and community doctors in the UAE.
Other roles and contributions Dr. Fakih is also the co-founder and Group Medical Director of Fakih IVF in the UAE, IVF Michigan in the USA, and the Founder of FIRST IVF in Lebanon. Additionally, he serves as an Associate Professor at Michigan State University, College of Human Medicine. His academic contributions include over 40 medical publications, further cementing his status as a thought leader in his field.
BACK TO TOP Name: Masood Jaffery
Rank: 27
Designation: Area Vice President and Programme Leader
Company: GSK
Country: UAE
Masood Jaffery has been serving as the Area Vice President & Programme Leader for MENA/CIS at GSK since January 2016. Previously, he held significant positions within the company, including Vice President and General Manager of GSK Saudi Arabia, and Managing Director and Board Member of Glaxo SA Ltd. from February 2012 to December 2015. His journey at GSK also includes roles as Vice President for the Middle East Africa region and Director of Marketing and Sales in Pakistan.
Extensive expertise With an MBA and a background as a pharmacist, Jaffery brings over 30 years of experience in the pharmaceutical industry. He has worked in various capacities across Pakistan, the UK, the UAE, and Saudi Arabia. His wealth of expertise and deep understanding of the pharmaceutical landscape make him a valuable leader in healthcare and pharmaceuticals.
GSK – A global biopharma leader GSK is a global biopharma company dedicated to developing and delivering medicines, vaccines, and consumer healthcare products. GSK aims to enhance the health of 2. 5 billion people by 2030, with a strong focus on infectious diseases, HIV, respiratory/immunology, and oncology.
Committed to developing innovative cancer treatments, GSK seeks to provide hope and better outcomes for patients with ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer, multiple myeloma, and other diseases. GSK boasts the broadest vaccines portfolio in the industry, offering protection against meningitis, shingles, flu, polio, measles, and more. In 2021, GSK achieved major product approvals for treatments targeting endometrial cancer, Covid-19, and HIV.
Financial growth According to GSK’s Q1 2024 financial report, the company saw strong growth and performance across multiple sectors. Sales increased by 6 percent at actual exchange rates (AER) and 10 percent at constant exchange rates (CER), reaching $9. 56 billion. Excluding COVID-19 solutions, sales growth was 13 percent. The core operating profit rose by 27 percent at AER and 35 percent at CER, reaching $3. 17 billion, with the core operating profit margin improving by 460 basis points at CER, excluding COVID-19 solutions.
In the vaccines sector, sales grew by 22 percent, driven by strong performances in RSV and shingles vaccines. Speciality medicines saw significant growth, with sales increasing by 18 percent, largely due to contributions from HIV and respiratory medicines. HIV long-acting injectables experienced impressive growth of 83 percent. General medicines saw modest growth of 1 percent, driven by Trelegy, which increased by 33 percent, though other general medicines experienced a 2 percent decline.
Looking ahead, GSK has upgraded its financial guidance for 2024, expecting sales growth of 5-7 percent, core operating profit growth of 9-11 percent, and core EPS growth of 8-10 percent, all excluding COVID-19 solutions. These findings underscore GSK’s strong start to 2024, driven by robust sales growth across vaccines, speciality medicines, and general medicines.
BACK TO TOP Name: Ole Per Maloy
Rank: 28
Designation: Senior Vice President
Company: Siemens Healthineers
Country: UAE
Ole Per Maloy has been a key figure at Siemens Healthineers since his appointment as Senior Vice President in January 2018. His career within the company includes significant leadership roles such as General Manager and SVP for Western Europe and Western Africa. His progression and achievements highlight his substantial contributions to the growth and success of Siemens Healthineers.
Innovating in medical technology For over 125 years, Siemens Healthineers has been at the forefront of medical technology, pushing boundaries with cutting-edge advancements in imaging, diagnostics, and cancer therapy. The company’s mission is to empower healthcare providers with innovative technologies and services in diagnostic and therapeutic imaging, laboratory diagnostics, molecular medicine, digital health, and enterprise services.
Global presence and customised solutions Siemens Healthineers is currently present in more than 70 countries, ensuring close proximity to customers. The company’s products, solutions, and services are tailored to meet local market needs, leveraging unmatched global expertise.
Built on a history of innovation, Siemens Healthineers is a global player with a strong engineering heritage. Just one year after X-rays were discovered by Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen in 1895, the company created its first medical X-ray device.
Today, engineers and researchers worldwide continue to build upon this legacy of innovation. Supported by an annual research and development investment of $1. 6 billion and about 24,000 technical intellectual property rights, including more than 15,000 granted patents, Siemens Healthineers consistently brings breakthrough innovations to market for the benefit of patients, medical professionals, and society.
Dedicated and diverse team The team at Siemens Healthineers comprises of more than 71,000 employees, who push the boundaries of what’s possible in healthcare to improve lives globally. As a diverse organisation, Siemens Healthineers can better relate to people—whether customers or patients—their communities, and their specific challenges.
Diversity, equity, and inclusion are vital aspects of the company’s broader responsibilities. Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals is a priority in the company’s business strategy, continuously enabled by its unique culture.
Commitment to sustainability Siemens Healthineers is a member of the UN Global Compact, with emissions reduction targets approved by the Science Based Targets Initiative as consistent with the goals of the Paris Agreement. The company’s sustainability strategy is built on three pillars: improving healthcare access for all, limiting environmental impact while pioneering breakthroughs, and engaging its diverse workforce to achieve this global impact. Siemens Healthineers pioneers breakthroughs in healthcare for everyone, everywhere, sustainably.
Financial performance In Q1 2024, the company achieved a revenue of $61 million, representing a 21 percent year-on-year growth. Additionally, the net profit before tax and zakat was $14. 6 million, marking an 18 percent year-on-year growth.
BACK TO TOP Name: Raza Siddiqui
Rank: 29
Designation: CEO
Company: Arabian Healthcare Group (RAK Hospital)
Country: UAE
Raza Siddiqui, with a career spanning over 40 years, currently serves as the CEO of Arabian Healthcare Group, which includes the flagship RAK Hospital. Siddiqui’s journey in the healthcare sector began as a management trainee at Lupin Laboratories Limited, a leading pharmaceutical firm in India, followed by a role at Ranbaxy Laboratories. He later founded Stancare for Ranbaxy and progressed to corporate communications and strategic planning at Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in New Delhi, India.
During his tenure as Director of Operations at Belhoul Speciality Hospital in Dubai from 1998 to 2003, on behalf of the Apollo Hospitals Group, Siddiqui played a key role in obtaining Joint Commission International (JCI) accreditation and introduced cardiac surgery programmes to boost medical tourism in the UAE. He then served as Executive Director at ETA Star Healthcare, where he led the establishment of joint ventures with companies such as Trivitron Healthcare.
Leadership and achievements Siddiqui believes that passionate and ethical leadership is essential for developing strong organisations that continuously grow and prosper. He strives to provide his colleagues with an environment that fosters leadership in both their professional and personal lives. Through pioneering efforts in healthcare delivery, infrastructure, cutting-edge technology, and inclusive approaches, Siddiqui has significantly contributed to the sector.
In 2018, he received a token of appreciation by His Highness Sheikh Saud Bin Saqr Al Qasimi, ruler of Ras Al Khaimah and member of Supreme Council for serving as a Member of The Board of Directors in the Ras Al Khaimah Chamber of Commerce, a role that he has fulfilled since 2013.
Under the Arabian Healthcare Group, Siddiqui spearheaded the creation of a chain of premium medical and speciality centres across various locations in Ras Al Khaimah. RAK Hospital was launched in 2007, founded upon the initiative of Sheikh Saud bin Saqr Al Qasimi, Ruler of Ras Al Khaimah and Member of the Supreme Council of the UAE.
Arabian Healthcare Group A few of the services offered by the 80-bed hospital include cardiac surgery, joint replacements, neurosurgery, minimally invasive surgeries, and plastic and aesthetic surgery among other disciplines. The hospital has firmly secured its place as a premier health tourism destination, attracting international patients seeking quality healthcare at an affordable price. The hospital has also partnered with Sonnenhof Swiss Health, leveraging the rich Swiss heritage of healthcare and hospitality.
BACK TO TOP Name: Mana Bin Mansour Almana
Rank: 30
Designation: Group CEO
Company: Almana Group of Hospitals
Country: Saudi Arabia
Mana began his journey with the group in 2007, initially leading the human resources department and overseeing various administrative tasks. His effective management and commitment to the group’s day-to-day operations have been pivotal in his rise within the organisation.
Academic credentials Mana holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals and a Master’s Degree in International Business Administration from the University of Surrey, UK. These academic achievements have equipped him with the knowledge and skills essential for driving the group’s strategic vision and operations.
Professional journey
In April 2008, Almana was appointed as the on-site Director of Marketing and Business Development, a role he held until September 2018. His contributions in this position were significant in steering the group’s marketing strategies and business growth. In October 2018, he ascended to his current role as Group CEO, where he continues to lead Almana Group towards achieving its global vision and objectives.
Almana Group of Hospitals The Almana Group of Hospitals, part of the larger Ibrahim bin Mohammed Almana & Brothers Company, is one of the largest independent, family-owned groups in the region. Established in Saudi Arabia in 1949 by Sheikh Mohammad Bin Abdullah Almana, the group has evolved from its early trading and shipping business into one of the most diversified and highly regarded business entities in the region and beyond.
The Almana Group stands as the Eastern Province’s largest medical company and healthcare provider, with a history spanning over seven decades. It has earned its reputation through exceptional care and a comprehensive array of healthcare services. The group is committed to serving the community by ensuring access to state-of-the-art technology that meets international standards in the healthcare industry.
Current scope and reach Almana Group boasts a workforce of 6,600 employees, including 800 doctors, and operates 1,100 total beds across eight medical facilities. The group’s Trading Division supplies medical equipment and supplies to other national healthcare facilities, reinforcing its commitment to enhancing healthcare accessibility and quality.
BACK TO TOP
Credit: Staff Writer
: Innovations; Leadership; Health facilities; Health care industry
: : Leadership Health care industry
: Riyadh Saudi Arabia; Middle East; United States--US; Saudi Arabia; United Arab Emirates; Dubai United Arab Emirates
: Revealed: The top 30 healthcare visionaries of 2024
: Arabianbusiness.com; London
: 2024
: Aug 1, 2024
: Disco Digital Media, Inc.
: London
/: United States, London
: Business And Economics--International Commerce
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3086781166
URL: 
: © 2022 ITP DIGITAL Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).
: 2024-08-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: China shuts renowned Tibetan private school, sparking outcry
: The Chinese government has shut down a prominent vocational high school in a Tibetan area of Qinghai province, making it the latest in a slew of Tibetan private schools that have been forcibly closed in recent years.
The Gangjong Sherig Norling school in Golog county, or Guoluo in Chinese, is in the historical Amdo region of Tibet. It was founded in 1994 by Ragya Jigme Gyaltsen, the principal, and is renowned for its modern and traditional education on Tibetan culture, philosophy and religion.
In an announcement in both Tibetan and Mandarin dated July 14, Gyaltsen said the school was closing because it was not in compliance with standards set by the Qinghai Provincial Party Committee for vocational schools. However, no specifics were provided.
The 30-year-old school is the latest in a series of private schools forcibly closed in recent years, sparking concern among Tibetans over efforts by Chinese authorities to eradicate Tibetan language and culture.
Tenzin Lekshey, spokesperson for the Central Tibetan Administration - the Tibetan government-in-exile - expressed disappointment over the school's closure and condemned the Chinese government's actions, stating that the move highlights Beijing's disregard for the wishes of the Tibetan people.
The forced closure of Tibetan schools underscores the Chinese government's escalating policy to eradicate and undermine Tibetan language and culture, he said.
Gyaltsen also announced the closure of the school last week at a graduation ceremony for 110 students.
In tears
Videos of the graduation showed students in tears upon hearing news of the closure. The students, dressed in traditional Tibetan attire, were seen carrying the traditional Tibetan white ceremonial scarves as a mark of respect and gratitude for the school.
During the past three decades, the school has served as a vital hub of learning for Tibetan cultural and linguistic studies, drawing youth from across Tibet, Mongolia and Inner Mongolia.
The school's rigorous curriculum also includes English, computer science, engineering, medicine, filmmaking and physical education.
In all, nearly 2,300 students have graduated from the institution where distinguished Tibetan scholars such as Berza Tsultrim, Dong Younten Gyatso and Mangri Gyadol have served as professors.
Graduates have gone on to become researchers, doctors, civil servants, teachers, monastery leaders and administrators.
At the time of its closure, the school is reported to have had 1,400 students and 58 faculty and staff.
Hub for Tibetan studies
The school's closure has sparked concern both inside and outside Tibet, with many former students and Tibetan language activists expressing disappointment and outrage on social media.
A former student posted a short video on social media in which he said the shutdown of a homeland school fully engaged in preserving the language and culture of the Tibetan race makes me feel very sad.
Today, a black snowfall has fallen on Tibet and the light of Tibet has gone out, wrote one Tibetan netizen on Chinese social media.
Another wrote: The school is regarded as the pride and shining beacon of the Tibetan people, a great star in our society. Without it, we would not be aware of the state of our language. In a way, our people are truly unfortunate.
However, a former school employee now living in the United States said she wasn't surprised about the school's closure because rumors about it had circulated for some time.
The local government has been trying to shut down schools that are not under their control, especially independent Tibetan language private schools, said the woman who requested anonymity for fear of backlash.
Many students and teachers I know are heartbroken and in despair, she added.
Restrictions
Penpa Tsering, the Sikyong, or political leader of the Central Tibetan Administration, told RFA that the Kashag, or Cabinet of the government-in-exile, is concerned about the school's closure, which has helped Tibetans preserve their identity.
It is clear that the Chinese government instead of improving the conditions in Tibet, rather they are worsening the situation day by day, he said, adding that the Kashag fears Beijing will take similar action in other parts of Tibet.
According to the Central Tibetan Administration, repeated attempts had been made in the past by Chinese authorities to shut down the school, including levying lawsuits against Gyaltsen by falsely accusing him of accepting bribes while serving as chairman of the Snow Land Pastoral Association and the Qinghai-Tibet Trade Association.
After a trial, the charges against the school were dismissed, and Gyaltsen was acquitted of any wrongdoing. However, he was temporarily suspended from his role as a member of the Tibetan Nationalities Council.
Since 2020, the Chinese government has imposed stricter restrictions on language rights in Tibet, resulting in the closure of private Tibetan schools and a heightened emphasis on Chinese-language education in the name of standardizing textbooks and instructional materials.
In 2021, authorities also began banning Tibetan children from attending informal language classes or workshops during winter breaks.
Activists warn that these measures could threaten the survival of the Tibetan language in the region and undermine its viability nationwide.
Nyima Woser, a researcher at the India-based Tibetan Centre for Human Rights and Democracy, told RFA that the forceful closure of the school violates China's own constitution, autonomous regulations and international laws.
The school's shutdown coincided with the signing into law U.S. legislation on Tibet that urges the Chinese government to address the aspirations of the Tibetan people concerning their unique historical, cultural, religious and linguistic identity.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Language; Students; Culture; Private schools; Social networks; Bribery; Shutdowns; Activism; Graduations & commencements; Education
: : Social networks Shutdowns
: Beijing China; United States--US; Tibet; China; Mongolia
: China: China shuts renowned Tibetan private school, sparking outcry
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Jul 19, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3082317596
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jul 19, 2024
: 2024-07-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Singapore: Speech by SMS Low Yen Ling at the Singapore Heartland Enterprise Summit 2024
: 1. I am delighted to join you at the 2024 Singapore Heartland Enterprise Summit.
2. Since 2014, the Summit has become a valuable platform for heartland businesses and industry experts to network, share insights on emerging trends and spark new ideas.
3. I am glad to hear from FMAS that over 300 heartland enterprises, are attending the Summit this year, a 30% jump from 2023. This is a positive reflection of our vibrant heartland business landscape.
4. In line with today's theme, Innovate and Elevate: Fostering Collaboration and Partnership, I would like to highlight two key areas for heartland enterprises to consider to stay relevant and get ahead: transforming and innovating for the future.
Transforming heartland enterprises and building digital capabilities
5. In recent years, heartland enterprises have made significant progress in transformation, especially in digitalisation. Today, more than nine in ten heartland shops across Singapore offer at least one e-payment solution, while about two-thirds have adopted digital tools and platforms such as Google Business Profiles, Carousell and Shopback.
CDC Vouchers drive digital transformation in heartland businesses
6. The drive towards digital transformation has also gained speed and traction with the pervasive use of CDC vouchers, which are claimed and redeemed digitally. Two days ago, DPM Gan announced the distribution of the fifth tranche of CDC Vouchers. In less than two days more than 650,000 Singaporean households have claimed their June 2024 CDC Vouchers, more than 50 per cent of our 1.31 million Singaporean households.
Across the first 4 tranches of CDC Voucher Scheme, more than $1.1 billion of CDC Voucher have been spent at participating hawkers, heartland merchants and supermarkets.
7. In fact, since December 2021, or within 2.5 years, the CDC Voucher Scheme has catalysed close to $650 million of spending in participating heartland merchants and hawker stalls. By the end of this year, we expect this amount to rise to more than $900 million dollars of CDC Vouchers spent at participating hawkers and heartland merchants.
At the same time, the number of heartland shopkeepers and hawkers on board the CDC Voucher scheme has grown steadily with the use of the vouchers. Today, the scheme has more than 23,000 participating hawkers and heartland merchants.
Many participating hawkers and heartland merchants have shared with us over the last two years through dialogues and events that the CDC Vouchers have nudged them onto digital platforms, and joining the scheme has boosted their business and customer reach.
Keep up the momentum - Heartlands Go Digital
8. I encourage all our heartland enterprises to keep up the momentum of digital transformation. For instance, the Heartlands Go Digital (HGD) Programme [¨½¥ø¤Æ|] has received positive feedback and good responses from heartland businesses seeking to upgrade their digital and manpower capabilities.
9. One of these enterprises is Kreme Café. Its second-generation owner, Elijah Tan, applied to the HGD Programme to optimise the café's storefront and appeal. The Visual Merchandising Programme is an important programme that helped rejuvenate the shopfront. Under the programme, he transformed the traditional heartland bakery into a modern café, which attracted younger customers. Kreme Café also adopted e-payment solutions, accounting for over a third of the café's transactions. Additionally, Elijah sought Heartland Enterprise Centre Singapore (HECS), business advisory and training to assess and improve the shop's digital capabilities and service. This business transformation has injected a fresh look and brought new customers to Elijah's café.
10. Like Kreme Café, 700 heartland enterprises benefited from HECS in 2023. They received strong support to upgrade their capabilities in areas such as digital marketing, service excellence, and financial management.
Innovation is critical to staying ahead
11. Besides transformation, the other key area that heartland enterprises must continue to ramp up is innovation. Innovation keeps a business agile, relevant and competitive. Our heartland enterprises can keep up with changing consumer preferences and emerging trends by continually creating new products and services or evolving fresh business concepts.
12. To encourage our heartland enterprises to innovate their products or business models, we launched the Heartland Innovation and Transformation (HIT) Programme [·|¨½|] last year. As a result, several enterprises will showcase their novel products and services at the Ang Mo Kio Town Centre at the end of this year.
13. We can look forward to some exciting and creative concepts and products.
a. For example, Project Enigma, a retail kiosk in Ang Mo Kio, will showcase its 3D-printed mechanical puzzles and science toys that promote cognitive agility. Besides starting a puzzle museum and library at Henderson Community Club, the enterprise runs community workshops to boost brand awareness and additional income streams.
b. AJ Delights is another enterprising heartland shop. It sells delicious, sustainable muffins baked with leftover okara and sesame husks. Besides reducing food waste, muffins are marketed as a healthy food option.
14. Another recent initiative to help heartland enterprises innovate is the Heartland Enterprise Placemaking Grant [¨½¥øª3], which encourages merchants to collaborate, host community engagement events and thematic festivals. These activities can attract more footfall and business in the heartlands. As a start, Enterprise Singapore organised the Rasa Gombak Day Out at Bukit Gombak Neighbourhood Centre in April this year. Besides showcasing new products, services and experiences, the 3-day festival was a pilot for testing new concepts to enhance neighbourhood vibrancy and attract new customers to the heartlands.
15. We are creating many opportunities and avenues for heartland enterprises to explore, experiment and innovate.
16. Last year, the Wunderground festival, organised by the Singapore Retailers Association, fostered new ideas, facilitated cross-industry and cross-precinct collaborations within the retail and F&B sectors, and featured collaborations between homegrown retail and lifestyle brands.
17. One of the enterprises showcased at Wunderground was Heng Foh Tong, a local traditional Chinese medicine specialist. It introduced its new range of herbal teas and co-creations like herbal-scented pouches and popsicles. Since then, it has partnered with Fairprice Xtra to launch its products and brand kiosk at Fairprice Xtra Jurong Point.
Commitment from Government
18. You have the Government's strong commitment and support for your transformation journey. As part of Our Heartlands 2025 vision [2025 ¨½·¤Ñ|], we are:
a. One, deepening the digital and manpower capabilities of heartland shops;
b. Two, upgrading the capabilities of our trade associations and chambers (TAC) partners and
c. Three, revitalising the heartlands and heartland shops to attract more customers.
19. We will not let up our efforts. Beyond the Our Heartlands 2025 initiative, we work closely with FMAS on precinct rejuvenation projects and support FMAS' flagship events, such as today's Singapore Heartland Enterprise Summit. In addition, we also support the Singapore Heartland Enterprise Star Award (SHESA) to recognise outstanding and promising heartland enterprises.
Closing
28. I encourage our heartland enterprises to take advantage of Enterprise Singapore's various programmes and support to keep innovating and stay ahead. To chart your transformation journey, you can also seek HECS for business advice and assistance.
29. Thank you to FMAS for organising this Summit and partnering with us to champion and propel our heartland enterprises to greater heights.
30. I wish all of you an enriching and successful Singapore Heartland Enterprise Summit! Thank you.
(Ministry of Trade and Industry Singapore)
: Collaboration; Customers; Vouchers; Trends
: : Customers
: Singapore
: Singapore: Speech by SMS Low Yen Ling at the Singapore Heartland Enterprise Summit 2024
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Jul 9, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Peri odicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3076793720
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jul 9, 2024
: 2024-07-09
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Accrelist unit to acquire 60% stake in Nanjing health management company
: Chong, Xin. 
: ACCRELIST'S 95 per cent-owned subsidiary intends to acquire a 60 per cent equity stake in a health management company for 1.5 million yuan (S$280,000), said the Catalist-listed company on Wednesday (Jul 3).
The subsidiary, Accrelist Medical Aesthetics (Hainan), will purchase 1.5 million newly issued and paid-up shares in Accrelist Nanjing, formerly known as Nanjing Yi Chuangyuan Health Management.
Information on Accrelist Nanjing's book value and net tangible asset value attributable to the sale shares as at Mar 31 are not available as the company "never prepared management accounts and/or financial statements", said Accrelist, which has business in skincare products, medical aesthetics and electronics solutions.
It added: "There is no open market value of the shares of Accrelist Nanjing as the latter is not publicly traded and no valuation has been carried out in connection with the acquisition."
The proposed transaction will be funded entirely by Accrelist Medical Aesthetics (Hainan)'s internally available disposable resources, including loans it received from the group.
Following the acquisition, Accrelist's executive chairman and managing director Terence Tea will be appointed Accrelist Nanjing's legal representative and general manager for a term of two years.
Tea said: "Accrelist Nanjing's foundation and comprehensive offerings provide a solid platform for growth. I am confident that our combined expertise and market knowledge will enable us to achieve significant milestones and create long-term value for our shareholders."
The primary scope of business of Accrelist Nanjing ranges from remote health management services and traditional Chinese medicine to non-medical health services.
Prior to the acquisition, the company was wholly owned by Dong Qi Lin. The group said that Dong has no direct or indirect interests in the group and is not related with any of the group's directors, controlling shareholders and their respective associates.
Additionally, Dong, Accrelist Nanjing and Accrelist's subsidiary also entered into a supplementary agreement on Tuesday.
As part of the agreement, Dong and the subsidiary will transfer 2 per cent and 3 per cent, respectively, from their holdings of Accrelist Nanjing's new share capital to a third-party service provider.
The new share capital of Accrelist Nanjing amounts to 2.5 million after combining the newly issued 1.5 million shares to the existing one million shares.
Accrelist noted that the disposal of shares is intended as a one-off management fee paid to the third-party service provider in exchange for services it had rendered to both Accrelist Nanjing and Accrelist Medical Aesthetics (Hainan) that had been "instrumental" to the acquisition.
Following the disposal, Dong will hold a 38 per cent stake in Accrelist Nanjing, while the subsidiary will own 57 per cent.
Shares of Accrelist closed up 18 per cent or S$0.007 at S$0.046 on Wednesday.
: Capital stock; Stockholders; Equity stake
: : Capital stock Stockholders Equity stake
: Accrelist unit to acquire 60% stake in Nanjing health management company
: Chong, Xin
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Jul 4, 2024
: COMPANIES & MARKETS
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3075628608
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-07-04
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Tibetan fungus harvesters detained after reporting fraud
: Six Tibetan caterpillar fungus harvesters and sellers from eastern Tibet have been detained by Chinese police after attempting to report a buyer who allegedly defrauded them, sources with knowledge of the situation said.
The harvesters from farming or nomadic families in Chamdo city's Tengchen county, or Dengqen in Chinese, were trying to report a Chinese merchant who allegedly duped 26 Tibetans out of caterpillar fungus worth 2.5 million yuan, or about US$344,000, the sources said.
In English, the substance is called caterpillar fungus, but it is more widely recognized throughout Asia by its Tibetan name yartsa gunbu, which means summer grass, winter worm.
Many Tibetans in the county rely on income from selling the fungus to make a living.
Highly valued in traditional medicine and sometimes fetching up to US$50,000 per pound, the fungus is believed to treat various ailments, despite lacking scientific validation.
Police detained the six Tibetans - Dhargey, Drubgha, Ngado, Samdup, Tsering Dhargey and Tsega - on June 18 when they traveled to northern China's coastal city of Tianjin to lodge a complaint, said the sources, who requested anonymity for fear of reprisals by authorities.
Two police officers from Chamdo city and a local officer initially detained the group there before transferring them to Tengchen county, the sources said. Their current whereabouts are unknown.
Scammed
Twenty-six Tibetans in the county who accumulated their own stocks of caterpillar fungus, supplemented by additional purchases, sold their entire supplies to Chinese businessman Lin Jinyuan, who offered 5,000 yuan, or nearly US$700, more per kilogram than other buyers, said a Tibetan from the region.
Upon learning that Lin owned stores and hotels in Beijing and Tianjin, the sellers immediately trusted him and agreed to sell their stocks, he said.
Lin gave them a receipt and promised to pay them the money after a few days, but on June 9, he vanished from Tengchen and could not be found, the source said.
When the Tibetan sellers went to the address on the receipt in Tianjin to collect their payment for the caterpillar fungus, they realized they had been duped, the Tibetan told Radio Free Asia. The receipt was fake and did not belong to him.
Chinese authorities detained the Tibetans for taking the matter into their own hands rather than following the proper protocol for lodging complaints, and for creating a commotion, a second Tibetan from Tibet told RFA.
The Tibetan sellers, however, insisted that all they want is to recover the money the Chinese businessman duped them out of, he said. They have submitted all the evidence, including a picture of the Chinese businessman and the receipts he gave them.
Local authorities and police in Tengchen county warned the Tibetans to follow proper procedures or risk imprisonment instead of recovering their money, he said.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Fungi
: China; United States--US; Tibet
/: : Radio Free Asia; NAICS: 516210
: China: Tibetan fungus harvesters detained after reporting fraud
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Jul 1, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3073298932
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jul 1, 2024
: 2024-06-29
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Indulge in Queensland's wellness retreats
: sphcomsg, btnews. 
: THE Gold Coast in Queensland is well-known for its sun, surf, sand and theme parks. You might never have considered escaping to a calming wellness retreat in this flashy, tourist-packed destination about an hour's drive from Brisbane. But there is a wide range of luxury spas and bathhouses to visit in this balmy spot.
Among them are Chuan Spa at The Langham, Gold Coast, and Spa by JW at JW Marriott Gold Coast Resort & Spa, both great for a few hours of pampering. Further afield in the hinterland is the well-established Eden Health Retreat featuring comprehensive wellness programmes and tranquil accommodation. There is also the new SOL Elements slated to be ready in December 2024.
Welcome to Eden As your car drives through lush landscape leading to Eden, you take a deep breath and soak in the surroundings. This property is nestled in Currumbin Valley, about an hour's drive away from Gold Coast.
Before arriving, guests will have a consultation with Eden's team to create a bespoke programme with their goals in mind. "For instance, those looking for stress relief may be offered a programme that focuses on relaxation activities, such as taiji, yoga, bush walks and meditation, plus spa treatments," says chief executive officer Shona Philps.
Guests can choose seven, four, or three-night stays. After a recent renovation, Eden now offers 48 cabins with private bathrooms, plush beds and relaxation spaces. The luxury cabins also have balconies overlooking the valley or rainforest. Bear in mind that Wi-Fi is not available except at the reception area. Digital detox is taken seriously here. After all, you are here to relax.
Over at the refurbished spa, there are seven treatment rooms. The new vitality centre features a bevy of cutting-edge treatments including cryotherapy, infrared sauna, airpod oxygen chamber and more.
Aside from personal training sessions at the gym, you can enjoy a dose of sunshine outdoors. "Our guests also love to step outside of their comfort zone. This may mean flying freely on our flying fox, soaring high over the Currumbin Valley. Or our valley swing, which allows guests to explore the feeling of weightlessness as they glide through the trees," says Philps.
Food-wise, the menu presents nourishing organic wholefood meals which are gluten-free, using some locally sourced products. Vegans and vegetarians are not left out either.
Soul-searching at SOL Elements Another hinterland wellness retreat is the soon-to-open SOL Elements. Also about an hour's drive from the city, SOL is located amid Tamborine Mountain's tropical rainforest.
The Elemental Bathhouse focuses on the regenerative power of earth, air, fire and water. Think mineral-rich thermal baths, cold plunge pools, float therapy, infrared saunas, a Himalayan salt cave and more.
What's unique about SOL Elements is the setting which overlooks a water-lily-filled lake. "We are surrounded by 320 degrees of water, as SOL sits literally in our billabong," says founder Russell Raven. "We have turtles, fish and birds that we share the space with. From a scientific health-based perspective, our water filtration system is second to none."
The communal spaces offer guests the ideal environment for shared experiences, away from digital distraction. Raven says: "We have a social sauna, a silent steam room, five- and 10-degree cold thermal baths, hot thermal baths and earth clay/salt suite and a submerged fire pit which is sunken beneath the billabong's water level."
When SOL opens, you can choose to go for a day trip or stay for a few days at the adjacent Cedar Creek Lodges which offers accommodation such as luxe glamping or self-contained lodges.
Luxe city spas After basking in the sun at Surfers Paradise, head to the recently opened Spa by JW to relax.
One of the treatments to consider is the two-hour Couples Retreat package, featuring a warm foot bath, body polish, a calming bath with lavender and chamomile, and full-body aromatherapy massage. Top this experience with a glass of champagne in the relaxation lounge.
Every session is accompanied by complimentary flower blooming tea and house-made biscotti. At the lounge's refreshment bar, you'll also find a selection of wholesome snacks and beverages including fruit-infused water, herbal tea and locally sourced fruit and nuts. To linger even longer at the spa, you can book a high tea complete with scones and pastries.
Another upscale spa at Surfers Paradise is The Langham's Chuan Spa, whose concept is guided by the five elements of wood, fire, earth, metal and water, alongside the principles of traditional Chinese medicine.
Among the range of treatments, a recommended one is the Chuan Harmony Massage, a fusion of acupressure and relaxation techniques. Or the 2.5-hour Chuan Ritual, which allows you to customise your own experience from a signature massage to facial or herbal salt scrub.
When your rejuvenating session is over, take a dip in the magnesium indoor pool overlooking the sparkling ocean and golden beach just within shouting distance from the luxe hotel.
: Resorts & spas; Gold; Tea
: : Resorts & spas; : 72111 :‎ Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels 31192 :‎ Coffee and Tea Manufacturing
: Australia; Queensland Australia
: 72111: Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels; 31192: Coffee and Tea Manufacturing
: Indulge in Qu eensland's wellness retreats
: sphcomsg, btnews
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Jun 28, 2024
: TRAVEL
: Lifestyle
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3073102992
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-06-28
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Tackling the rising threat of mosquito-borne diseases: The insects are becoming more resistant to prevention, while the climate crisis has opened up regions where they can thrive — raising the stakes in a global struggle against one of nature's great survivors. By Michael Peel
: Peel, Michael. 
: Deep in the bowels of Imperial College London's main campus is a facility known as the insectary. The journey to it, via basement corridors and an entrance that sounds an alarm upon opening, feels like something out of a horror film. Beyond two sets of double doors lies the reason for the security: thousands of the Anopheles mosquito that has long been humanity's deadliest animal threat. The insects in these temperature-controlled chambers are central to pioneering efforts to use genetic engineering to stop them passing on lifethreatening malaria. Federica Bernardini, a research associate, places her hand close to the white mesh sides of a box housing the biting bugs. "I am not going to put it there for long," she says, quickly pulling back from the tiny creatures as they start to home in on her. The Imperial work is part of a global struggle against the intensifying threat of mosquitoes and the destructive pathogens they carry. The first malaria vaccination campaign is being rolled out this year, while researchers are exploring ways to stem disease that are both ingenious and — in the case of genetic engineering — controversial to some. It is part of a wider public health battle against various infectious diseases that have surged in recent years due to environmental change, the Covid-19 pandemic and other factors. The mosquito campaign is a race against the clock. The insects are becoming more resistant to traditional prevention methods, while the climate crisis has opened up new regions where they can thrive. The great question now is whether humanity can control malaria and other illnesses spread by mosquitoes before their growing prevalence makes that goal impossible. "The further out we push the move into the malaria eradication era, the harder it's going to get," says Helen Jamet, deputy director for the disease in the global health division of the charitable Gates Foundation. "Because we'll have a lot more of these climate-based events — and we'll have a lot more of the problems around insecticide resistance, drug resistance and invasive species that will become harder and harder to tackle." T he sobering baseline today is that mosquitoes are threatening more people in more places than ever. The dangerous species of the insect are what are known as disease vectors — carriers of pathogens that they pass among human populations by sucking people's blood. The economic costs of mosquito-borne diseases have been estimated at $12bn a year. Poorer countries fare much worse, which is why the problem has historically been under-addressed by private healthcare investment. Now, richer nations are increasingly endangered. Dengue has spread dramatically and about half the world's population is now at risk of catching it, according to the World Health Organization. The disease is rarely fatal, but its common name of "breakbone fever" suggests how debilitating severe cases can be. The number of infections reported to the UN health body climbed from just over 500,000 in 2000 to 5.2mn in 2019 and likely misses many asymptomatic cases. WHO modelling puts the number at closer to 400mn cases annually, driven by urbanisation, rising rainfall and humidity, and increased population mobility. The dengue-transmitting Aedes albopictus mosquito, known as the Asian tiger because of its striped, white markings, is flourishing in more places globally. It has established itself in 13 EU countries compared with eight in 2013, according to the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC). The 130 cases of locally acquired dengue reported in 2023 were almost double the number from 2010 to 2021 combined. In the past seven years there have been reports of local transmission of Zika, which can cause grave birth defects, in France and chikungunya — a viral disease with symptoms similar to dengue — in Italy. "Trade, travel, climate change — all of these are really drivers of [this] emergence," says Céline Gossner, the ECDC's principal expert in emerging and vector-borne diseases. "We will see more cases of dengue and more outbreaks, that's very sure." Malaria deaths worldwide have risen since the Covid pandemic, after years of decline. Prevention efforts helped bring the number down from an estimated 897,000 in 2000 to 568,000 in 2019, but it climbed to 608,000 in 2022, mostly among children under five in African countries. The US saw its first homegrown malaria cases for 20 years last year, with infections reported in Florida, Texas and Maryland. This expansion is in some ways a reversion to historical trends. Malaria used to be endemic in the US and Europe, known by names such as "marsh fever" and "ague". Dengue, chikungunya and Zika virus outbreaks have also occurred recently in US states and territories, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. There is reason to think climate change and other environmental trends will widen mosquito ranges still further. Higher temperatures can increase biting frequency and the reproduction rates of both the insect and the pathogens it bears. Flooding made more frequent by climate change creates new stagnant pools for the insects to lay eggs, as do expanded water storage efforts in areas stricken by drought. Continued urbanisation will provide mosquito females — the only ones that bite — with more bodies for feasting. Invasive species, such as the malarial Anopheles stephensi, thrive in cities — and may bite during the day time, making traditional protections such as bednets less useful. "We are in a more vulnerable world," says John-Arne Røttingen, chief executive of the Wellcome philanthropic foundation, of the growing mosquito threat. "Some countries are more fragile than ever and, in those contexts, it will be more challenging." The evident dangers are driving a new age of research. In Paris, France's Institut Pasteur is building a new centre devoted to vector-borne diseases. "Mosquitoes can adapt more easily and quicker than us," says Anna-Bella Failloux, head of insect vector research at the institute. "But we will not give up. We can limit the burden." One development that is exemplary of the difficulties of the task ahead is the launch this year of the first malaria vaccination campaign. Two jabs, devised by Oxford university and the pharmaceutical company GSK, target the deadly P falciparum strain of malaria. Both are "safe and effective in preventing malaria in children", says WHO. The worry is that the rollout is patchy. Indian malaria vaccine makers called in May for multilateral agencies to order more doses to boost the campaign and drive down costs. Gavi, the global vaccine alliance, has said it needs not only to provide the doses, but to ensure the logistics are in place to deliver the jabs. Both vaccines seem to be good rather than great, reducing malaria cases in trials by more than half during the first year after vaccination. Both are most effective after four doses: a big ask in countries where health services may be thin and hard for patients to access. Another problem is the limited reach of the vaccination. Malaria will continue to spread from unjabbed people who carry the parasite with no symptoms, says Professor Faith Osier, co-director of Imperial College's Institute of Infection. "Unless you target vaccinating [the] entire population, you don't actually get rid of it," she adds. A promising emerging area of antimalaria efforts uses monoclonal antibody technology, which stimulates the human immune system. The antibodies disrupt the Plasmodium parasite that causes malaria, by binding to it to stop its transmission to other people. One dose was up to 88.2 per cent effective in preventing infection over a 24-week period, according to a US National Institutes of Health clinical trial in Mali published in 2022. The approach is being improved all the time, says Dr Jeanne Marrazzo, director of the US government's National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. The latest monoclonal antibodies show an even greater ability to kill Plasmodium before it reaches the human liver, where it reproduces. "The second generation ones are even more potent and, importantly, last longer," Marrazzo says. "So you can imagine a malaria programme where you think about protecting people seasonally." Methods of preventing malaria are the more urgently needed because long-standing treatments for the disease are becoming less effective. The standard modern therapy based on artemisinin, a plant extract used in Chinese traditional medicine, is suffering from growing pathogen resistance. Partial resistance has spread from southeast Asia to Rwanda, Uganda and the Horn of Africa, according to research published this year. A s tried and tested methods start to falter, scientists are making crucial advances in other approaches, such as the practice of setting "good" bugs against bad. This nature-based technique harnesses bacteria called Wolbachia that occur naturally in many insects, including some mosquitoes. Introducing Wolbachia into eggs from the Aedes aegypti species can curb the growth of viruses in the adult insect, including those that cause dengue, chikungunya and Zika. The Wolbachia method is being rolled out by the World Mosquito Program, a non-profit initiative of Australia's Monash university. It is currently working in 14 countries in the Latin America and Asia-Pacific regions. Dengue cases in Colombia's Aburrá Valley region fell to a 20-year low after a release of Wolbachia insects there, research has suggested. In 2025, the WMP and Fiocruz, a foundation under Brazil's ministry of health, expect to open a factory in the country to turn out 5bn disease-blocking mosquito eggs a year. The Wolbachia approach appears to have some limitations. These include its vulnerability to environmental factors, temperature and host diet, according to research published in 2020. The WMP counters that it has shown Wolbachia can establish itself in insect populations in hot countries — although it acknowledges high temperatures can reduce maternal transmission of the bacteria. The most revolutionary technique to stop mosquito-borne diseases is genetic engineering. Oxitec, a US-owned biotechnology company, released modified Anopheles stephensi mosquitoes to combat malaria in Djibouti in the Horn of Africa in May. Its method involves releasing batches of male mosquitoes, which are trademarked "Friendly" — but prove anything but for their mates. The engineered insects carry a gene that causes female offspring to die before reaching maturity. This company describes the approach as "self-limiting" because fewer of the edited genes are passed on with each successive insect generation. This has the environmental advantage of not permanently altering the ecosystem — but it does mean repeated "Friendly" releases will be required. The gene drive techniques being worked on by Imperial College London, its partners and others aims for an even more radical solution. The approach can work either by disrupting genes crucial for female fertility, or by causing the sex ratio of the insect population to distort in favour of male offspring. The technology can potentially cut mosquito populations to levels at which malaria cannot be transmitted. The speed and efficiency with which these engineered traits can spread have raised concerns that it could have damaging biodiversity effects. But there is no evidence to support the idea that this would be the case, proponents argue. Organisations including the African Union are promoting the managed use of gene drive mosquito technology to improve public health. A 2019 gene drive mosquito release in Burkina Faso, west Africa, showed they successfully mixed with wild counterparts, although their survival rates were lower. Gene drive could be an essential tool in the fight against malaria, according to Professor Abdoulaye Diabaté, principal investigator at Target Malaria Burkina Faso, which oversaw the release. "Without additional tools we will never be able to cross the last mile of malaria elimination, no matter how much money we put in there and time we devote to it," he said in October. "We absolutely need to innovate." Over at Imperial's underground London mosquito vault, Bernardini hopes technological advances born there will be a potent new weapon in the fight to save lives. But she argues that, rather than seeking one single "magic tool", humankind will need the combined power of simultaneous breakthroughs to subdue its ancient insect foe. "You are going to have a synergistic effect that is going to use advances in all the aspects — whether that is a new insecticide, a new vaccine or transgenic technology," she says. "Collectively, that will give us a better chance." Graphic illustration by Ian Bott How genetic modification can combat mosquito-borne disease These processes increase chances of specific characteristic inheritance. In this example, based on work by Imperial College: Scientists studying the guts of bees and frogs isolated molecules that combat microbes They introduced the genes that produce these anti-microbial molecules into mosquitoes Gene drive system techniques increase chances of modifications being inherited. Coupled with modifications such as the one described, chances can be increased from 50% to up to 99% When a female mosquito ingests blood … … the anti-microbial molecules are produced in its gut … … delaying transmission of the malaria parasite to the insect's salivary glands, the next transmission phase Since most adult mosquitoes only live a few days, the delay is sufficient to block malaria parasites' progress and halt transmission to other humans In addition to blocking parasite growth, genetic modifications can interfere with female mosquito fertility or favour male offspring. Gene drive technology increases the chances of transmission of these features to subsequent generations Sources: Imperial College London; NIH National Library of Medicine; World Mosquito Program; CDC; WHO; FT research 'Without additional tools we will never be able to cross the last mile of malaria elimination' CREDIT: By Michael Peel
: Infectious diseases; Malaria; Pathogens; COVID-19 vaccines; Zika virus; Trends; Pandemics; Genetic engineering; Medical research; Insects; Disease prevention; Dengue fever; Mosquitoes; Vectors (Biology); Climate change; Drug resistance; Nonnative species
: United States--US; Asia
: Tackling the rising threat of mosquito-borne diseases:   The insects are becoming more resistant to prevention, while the climate crisis has opened up regions where they can thrive — raising the stakes in a global struggle against one of nature's great survivors. By Michael Peel
: Peel, Michael
: Financial Times; London (UK)
: 19
: 2024
: Jun 18, 2024
: News
: The Financial Times Limited
: London (UK)
/: United Kingdom, London (UK)
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance, Political Science
ISSN: 03071766
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3081969960
URL: 
: Copyright The Financial Times Limited Jun 18, 2024
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text. Content is not loaded until 30 days after it is published.
: 2024-07-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Russia: New snow leopard habitat opens at Moscow Zoo
: A new snow leopard habitat has opened in the old part of the Moscow Zoo, a TASS correspondent reported.
"Today, we are opening an enclosure we have been building in cooperation with our investor and custodian of two pairs of snow leopards, Ali Mussayevich [Uzdenov]. The enclosure compound consists of an outdoor space of 600 square meters and an indoor enclosure of more than 100 square meters. Untsik, a male leopard, came here from the Czech Republic in 2011 and Daina, a female, arrived from France. Zoologists say that they are very civilized cats, demonstrating no aggression at all. They are very fond of veterinary training," Svetlana Akulova, the Zoo's director general, said at the opening ceremony.
According to Akulova, the leopards are also fond of playing with boxes with treats inside. "The animals are in the process of pairing and mating - we hope to see their offspring. They used to be kept together but when they matured they were separated - the enclosure is divided into two parts," she explained.
The snow leopard enclosure imitates a rocky terrain, with various trees, bushes, grass and moss being planted on a stony slope. Many of the plants are edible to diversify the big cat's summer diet. The enclosure is divided into two connecting parts to house the two animals. Daina and Untsik have been living in the Moscow Zoo's Endangered Species Breeding Centre.
The new habitat also offers these elusive animals a lot of hiding places: ledges, cave retreats, and a two-layer log platform. A larger part of the indoor enclosure is hidden behind a timber fence with small windows. The habitat is designed to be home for several leopards and has places where the female cat can take care of her cubs.
According to Ali Uzdenov, chairman of the board of trustees of the Sailyugensky National Park, the snow leopard is a rare, endangered species. Only 87 such cats live in Russia, as follows from the 2024 snow leopard census.
"We must preserve this free, independent and beautiful cat, the more so as it is a symbol for many peoples living in Russia. The opening of this new enclosure, which is designed to replicate their natural habitat as much as possible, can be seen as a kind of guarantee of preserving these animals at least in zoos to breed them and later release them in the wild," he said.
Snow leopard, also called ounce, is a large long-haired cat native to the mountain ranges of Central Asia. The global population of snow leopards is estimated at 3,500-7,000 adults. The snow leopard is listed as endangered on the IUCN /International Union for Conservation of Nature/ Red List of Threatened Species. It is also listed on the Russian Red List. These endangered cats appear to be in dramatic decline because of poaching driven by illegal trades in pelts and in body parts used for traditional Chinese medicine. Vanishing habitat and the decline of the cats' large mammal prey are also contributing factors.
Source: Russian News Agency
: Cats; Endangered & extinct species
: Russia
/: : Moscow Zoo; NAICS: 712130
: Russia: New snow leopard habitat opens at Moscow Zoo
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Jun 6, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3064699269
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jun 6, 2024
: 2024-06-06
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Chinese Consul General in Perth Long Dingbin Publishes a Signed Article Titled China's New Development Australia's New Opportunity
: Consul General Long Dingbin in Perth published a named article titled "China's New Development, Australia's New Opportunities" in Communist Party of Australia's newspaper The Guardian. In the article, CG Long introduces the favorable economic situation in China and its vast market advantages, expresses his willingness to seize the opportunity of the improved bilateral relations, uphold the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind, promote pragmatic cooperation between China and Western Australia in various fields, and jointly advance the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Australia, making it more mature, stable, and fruitful for the benefit of the people of both countries. The full text is as follows:
What people should worry about is not whether China's growth would peak, but whether they would miss the opportunities in China.
China's economy has made a good start in the first quarter. The GDP reached 29.63 trillion yuan, with a year-on-year growth of 5.3% in constant prices, and a 1.6% increase compared to the previous year's fourth quarter. The total value of imports and exports of goods surpassed 10 trillion yuan for the first time in history, reaching 10.17 trillion yuan, with a 5% year-on-year growth, exceeding market expectations. Generally speaking, in the first quarter, the national economy made a good start with positive factors amassing, laying a strong foundation for achieving the annual development targets with a growth of around 5%.
New quality productive force drives high-quality development. Currently, China is accelerating the development of new quality productive force: the production and sales of new energy vehicles account for over 60% of the global market share, and the installed capacity of photovoltaic power generation and the scale of digital payments each account for nearly half of the global share. Exports of electric vehicles, lithium-ion batteries, and photovoltaic products, the new trio, have exceeded one trillion Yuan. China will rely on the development of new quality productive force to transform traditional industries, layout emerging strategic industries, and plan for future industries, providing sustained momentum for economic development.
The door of high-level opening-up continues to open wider. The negative list for foreign investment access has been reduced to fewer than 31 items, with comprehensive opening-up in manufacturing and relaxed market access in sectors such as telecommunications and healthcare services. The convenience for foreign nationals to work, study, travel, and make payments in China has been enhanced. Over the past five years, the rate of return on foreign direct investment in China has been 9.1%. Last year, nearly 54,000 new foreign-funded enterprises were established in China, an increase of 39.7% year-on-year. Over 100 multinational business executives have recently gathered in China. The China Development Forum 2024 and the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference 2024 both had a full house of guests. From the Canton Fair to the China International Import Expo, China International Fair for Trade in Services, the Global Digital Trade Expo, the China International Consumer Products Expo, and the China International Supply Chain Expo, China is opening wider and wider to the world, and China's mega-market remains a great opportunity for the world.
Now think of this: While China has a 400-million-strong middle-income group, its per capita GDP has only recently exceeded $12,000. With private consumption accounting for merely 40 percent of GDP, much remains to be done to upgrade the consumption structure. Even so, though, China has been contributing 30 percent of global growth for years.
Just imagine how much more potential will be unlocked as China's high-quality development benefits all the 1.4 billion people, and the population in the middle-income bracket reaches 800 million, and as consumption soars in education, tourism, healthcare, social pension insurance, government-subsidized housing and more!
With its immense size and vast prospects, China, as a premier destination for global investment that remains undervalued, is simply unparalleled.
China's development prospects are bright, and we have the confidence and determination for it. Chinese President Xi Jinping provided a clear and powerful response to the question about the state of the Chinese economy, which is of great concern worldwide, during his collective meeting with representatives from the American business and strategic academic sectors. This injection of confidence and momentum into China's economic development, as well as international economic cooperation, including cooperation with Australia, is significant. As Ambassador Xiao Qian of China to Australia stated, win-win cooperation is the right choice for China and Australia.
China and Australia are both important countries in the Asia-Pacific region, with highly complementary economic structures and mutually beneficial cooperation. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the establishment of the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Australia. Under the strategic guidance of the leaders of our two countries and with joint efforts from both sides, China-Australia relations thawed and set sail again, and exchanges and cooperation in various fields have gradually resumed. The relationship between China and Australia realized the second important transition, which fully serves the fundamental and long-term interests of Australia and its people and is in line with the trend of the times. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi's recent successful visit to Australia and Chinese Premier Li Qiang's upcoming visit later this year will inject new positive energy into the stable and far-reaching development of China-Australia relations.
Taking advantage of the recent improvement in bilateral relations, China recently announced the cancellation of anti-dumping duty on Australian wine, bringing joy and encouragement to governments at all levels in Australia and the wine industry. China is the largest market for agricultural products and beverages in Western Australia, accounting for over 18% of the total export value of agricultural products and beverages from WA in the 2022-2023 fiscal year. In early April, WA Minister for Agriculture and Food, Jackie Jarvis led a delegation to China, and it is believed that cooperation between Western Australia and China in the agricultural field will open up a new chapter.
China has been Western Australia's largest trading partner for 17 consecutive years, with Western Australia's total exports to China reaching AUD 144.6 billion in the 2022-2023 fiscal year, accounting for 55% of WA's overall exports. Among this, 85% of iron ore and 99% of lithium produced in WA are sold to China. In addition to traditional sectors such as mining resources and agriculture, there is also vast space for cooperation between the two sides in fields such as health care and medicine, e-commerce, culture, tourism, and education.
State-to-state relations ultimately boil down to people-to-people exchanges. The foundation of China-Australia relations lies in the people and has always enjoyed broad public support. We warmly welcome people from all walks of life in WA to visit China to experience the vibrant practice of Chinese-style modernization.
As the Consul General of China in Perth, I have witnessed the havoc wreaked by the COVID-19 pandemic and observed the gradual warming and stabilization of China-Australia relations from a low point. I am committed to upholding the concept of building a community with a shared future for mankind, and I am willing to work hand in hand with various sectors in WA to promote pragmatic cooperation between China and WA in various fields, thereby assisting WA in building a stronger diversified economy. Together, we are dedicated to advancing the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and Australia, making it more mature, stable, and fruitful for the benefit of the people of both countries.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: International trade; Agriculture; Economic development; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Exports; Cooperation; Tourism; Alliances; Consumption
: : International trade Economic development Gross Domestic Product--GDP Exports Consumption
: Australia; China; Western Australia Australia
: China: Chinese Consul General in Perth Long Dingbin Publishes a Signed Article Titled China's New Development Australia's New Opportunity
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Jun 3, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3062732513
URL:  a-chinese-consul-general-perth-long-dingbin/docview/3062732513/se-2?accountid=45062
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jun 3, 2024
: 2024-06-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Keynote Speech by Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin at the Working Lunch Hosted by Sweden-China Trade Council
: Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin attended the working lunch hosted by Sweden-China Trade Council and delivered a keynote speech entitledJoining Hands for the Win-Win Future, Bringing China-Sweden Economic and Trade Cooperation to a New Level. The excerpts are as follows:
It gives me great pleasure to attend the working lunch with SCTC again. Now I'd like to exchange views with you on China's economy and China-Sweden economic and trade cooperation.
Firstly, China's economy has maintained recovery momentum and performed well this year.
In the first quarter of 2024, despite the severe and complex international environment and the challenging domestic tasks of promoting reform, development and stability, China's economy still grows above expectation. With continued optimization of economic structure, enhanced quality and efficiency, basically steady prices, generally improving market expectations, China got off to a good start in economic and social development. In the first quarter, the year-on-year GDP growth rate was 5.3%. Import and export of trade in goods exceeded 1.43 trillion USD for the first time in history for the same period. The manufacturing PMI in April was 50.4%, indicating that the manufacturing industry is picking up. Several international institutions have raised their forecasts for China's economy. Goldman Sachs raised its forecast for China's GDP growth rate in 2024 from the previous 4.8% to 5.0%, and Morgan Stanley raised its forecast from 4.2% to 4.8%. Foreign media believe that the good performance of China's economy has provided more new opportunities for the development of foreign enterprises and injected new impetus into the growth of world economy.
After taking multiple measures, the issues such as weak real estate sector, not so strong recovery in consumption, and the slight decline in foreign investment are being steadily addressed and the effects are continuously emerging. In the first quarter of this year, transactions in several residential real estate markets have successively stepped out of the downward range, showing signs of stabilization and recovery. Domestic demand contributed 85.5% to economic growth and consumer confidence continued to rebound. 12,000 foreign invested companies were newly established, up by 20.7% year-on-year. The actual use of foreign capital exceeded 43 billion USD, of which nearly 5.7 billion USD were invested in the high-tech manufacturing industry, further optimizing the structure of foreign investment. Recently, A.T. Kearney, an American management consulting firm, released its Global Foreign Direct Investment Confidence Index for 2024, indicating that China's ranking rose to the 3rd from the 7th, reflecting the willingness of multinational companies to continue to expand investment in China. In general, China's economy enjoys strong resilience, tremendous potential, great vitality and the fundamentals sustaining its long-term growth remain unchanged.
Secondly, China has bright economic prospects and would like to share the development opportunities with the world.
As the largest engine of world economic growth, China has a sound foundation underpinning the development and many favorable conditions. First, China's economic development has a solid foundation. After 40 years of reform and opening up, China has made great strides forward, from "crossing the river by feeling the stones" to "boldly try and break through", from the establishment of the first special economic zone in Shenzhen to the countdown of the customs closure operation of Hainan Free Trade Port, China has accumulated a strong material and technological foundation, as well as valuable experience in the fields of economy, science and technology, culture, society and ecology, providing solid support for maintaining steady economic growth and coping with risks and challenges. Second, China is developing new quality productive forces according to local conditions. At present, China's economy has entered a new stage of high quality development, where innovation plays an increasingly important leading role. In 2023, China's innovation index ranks 12th in the world, and its R&D expenditure exceeds 469 billion USD, accounting for 2.64% of GDP. High quality development driven by innovation will promote the emergence of new market demands, investment opportunities and cooperation projects, providing vast space for all kinds of enterprises to achieve mutual benefits and common development in China.Third, China is always committed to opening up. China cannot develop in isolation from the rest of the world, and the world also needs China for its prosperity. China has always been promoting opening up, upholding free trade, and actively integrating into the world. The World Economic Outlook report released by IMF on April 9th shows that over the past two decades, G20 emerging economies have become much more integrated with the global market, among which China generates the largest economic "spillovers" to the rest of the world. A more open China will no doubt bring more opportunities for win-win cooperation to the world.
From May 5 to 10, Chinese President Xi Jinping pays a state visit to three European countries and the visit is still ongoing. This is the first visit by the Chinese head of state to Europe in the past nearly five years, which is of great significance to the development of Sino-EU relations and practical cooperation between the two sides. President Xi Jinping pointed out that, as the world enters a new period of turbulence and transformation, China and the EU, as two major forces, should continue to see each other as partners, stay committed to dialogue and cooperation, deepen strategic communication, enhance strategic mutual trust, build strategic consensus, carry out strategic coordination, work for steady and sound growth of China-EU ties, and continue making new contributions to world peace and development.
China follows a win-win strategy of opening-up, holds the view that everyone should appreciate others and promote shared prosperity, and constantly brings new opportunities to the world through China's new development. First, China's complete industrial system provides foreign enterprises with efficient production and logistics solutions and reduces their operation cost. China is a country with vast territory and complex geological location conditions. Extensiveness and comprehensiveness are unique advantages of China's manufacturing industry. China not only has a relatively sound and comprehensive basic industrial system, but also has the world's leading industrial layout, which enables a rapid response to global supply and demand changes with its advantages in scale and cost. All types of enterprises can find ideal partners in China. Second, China's abundant high-caliber talents pool provides high-quality human resources for foreign enterprises. Every year, more than 5 million students majoring in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) graduate from universities, and the number ranks top in the world. According to international think tanks, Chinese universities have trained about 50% of the world's top artificial intelligence (AI) researchers, ranking the first in the world. With more than 250 million people receiving higher education, China's total talent resources, scientific and technological human resources, and R&D personnel resources rank the first in the world. This has become an important power to support China's manufacturing and innovation, and enables more "Chinese wisdom" continuously flowing to the rest of the world. Third, China's super-size market has become a fertile land for many multinational companies to promote global innovation. China has built up a moderately prosperous society in all respects, with more than 800 million people having been lifted out of poverty. 400 million people are now in the middle-income bracket, and the number is expected to reach 800 million in future, forming the largest and most potential middle-income group in the world. China also has a high-degree integration of "applicable technology plus market application", which amortizes the costs of technology development and production. The advantage of the huge market not only provides broad space for China's industrial development and consumption upgrading, but also brings massive market opportunities to countries around the world.
Here I would like to talk about the topic of the So-called "China exporting overcapacity" which has gained attention recently in the media. In a market economy,the balance of supply and demand is relative, and the imbalance of supply and demand is universal. Moderate overcapacity is conducive to full competition and survival of the fittest. Overcapacity in specific industries in a certain period of time is the result of many factors, such as market competition, economic periodic fluctuation and so on. In fact, China's overcapacity is a structural one, and the capacity of many high-end industries such as chips, bio medicines, are not excessive, but insufficient. Let's take the new energy industry as an example. The advantages of China's new energy-related industries are the embodiment of multiple advantages such as technology, market and industrial chains. The output of related products is mainly consumed at China's domestic market, and there is no large-scale export. For example, in 2023, the export volume of new energy vehicles accounted for only 12.7% of the total sales. From a practical point of view, China's exports of new energy-related products have helped European countries survive the energy supply crisis, reduce inflation and strongly support the green and low-carbon transition. We hope to enhance global productivity and efficiency through open cooperation, to maintain the stability of the global supply and industrial chains, and to better promote common development.
Thirdly, the economic and trade cooperation between China and Sweden has a solid foundation, great potential and promising prospects.
China and Sweden have a long history of economic and trade exchanges. At present, more than 10,000 Swedish enterprises are conducting trade with China and more than 600 Swedish enterprises are operating in China. Many well-known enterprises such as Scania, ABB and AstraZeneca have been expanding their investment in China and the Chinese market has increasingly become the main engine of their growth of performance. By deeply cultivating the Chinese market, Swedish enterprises have not only contributed to China's development, but also realized their own development.
In 2023, the bilateral trade volume in goods between China and Sweden reached 18.85 billion USD. By the end of 2023, Sweden's accumulated investment in China totaled 6.88 billion USD and China's accumulated investment in Sweden totaled 19.48 billion USD. Although the two-way trade and investment between China and Sweden declined slightly in 2023 compared with the previous year,the trade structure has been constantly optimized and adjusted, and the proportion of cooperation in emerging areas has been increasing.
In recent years, more and more Chinese enterprises have come to Sweden for cooperation, and the cooperation in the sectors such as new energy, electric vehicles has increased its share. For example, Senior Material and several other Chinese companies are providers of lithium battery for Northvolt. Shanghai PTL is about to land in Sweden and start cooperation with Northvolt too. At present, economic and trade relations between our two countries are generally stable. China remains Sweden's largest trading partner in Asia, and Sweden is still China's largest trading partner in the Nordic region. Mutually beneficial cooperation between China and Sweden is not a risk, but a guarantee for the stability of bilateral relations and an opportunity for the future.
China and Sweden share similar ideas in green and sustainable development, and complement each others' industrial advantages. We both attach great importance to scientific and technological innovation and sustainable development. We have broad space for cooperation in the fields of technological application, green and low carbon development. Thus, I would like to make a few suggestions on strengthening bilateral cooperation.
First, jointly practice green and sustainable development. At the China-France-EU trilateral leaders' meeting on May 6, President Xi Jinping pointed out that China and EU have extensive common interests and broad space for cooperation in green and digital transition. European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen commended China for its efforts and progress made in green transition and development, acknowledged China's legitimate right to develop, and wished to continue candid dialogue with China and strengthen the cooperation between China and the EU. On the basis of maintaining traditional trade and cooperation, China and Sweden should make the best use of their resources and technological advantages to strengthen the division of labor and cooperation in global green industries, actively lead the reshaping of the global green value chain, give full play to the complementary advantages in areas such as green, low-carbon and environmental protection, strengthen synergy and jointly promote the realization of our respective carbon reduction goals to contribute to global green transition and sustainable development.
Second, jointly benefit from scientific and technological innovation cooperation. China is currently upgrading its industry, and vigorously developing new quality productive forces with innovation as the core driving force. There is great potential to be tapped in areas such as new materials, innovative medicines, bio-manufacturing, AI and big data. What China needs is just what Swedish enterprises can provide, and both sides can benefit from such cooperation. We hope that Swedish high-tech enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises could better participate in China's innovation-driven development strategy, display their strength in China, and harvest their own success in China's high quality development process.
Third, jointly share the pie of development and interests. As the economy develops, the structure of people's demand keeps changing, and multi-tiered and diversified demand keeps emerging. I hope that enterprises from both sides could pay close attention to the shifts of the market demand, and continuously produce marketable and differentiated products. In order to accelerate the implementation of the United Nation's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, China upgraded the South-South Cooperation Assistance Fund to the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, and established Global Development Project Pool and Capital Pool. Recently the Swedish government also released a new strategy-Development Assistance for a New Era. The two sides should encourage and support enterprises to play an active role, work together to explore third markets, make the pie of shared interests bigger, and achieve mutual benefits and win-win results.
Fourth, jointly promote economic and trade personnel exchanges. Maintaining strong personnel exchanges is conducive to strengthening ties between our two countries and provide more opportunities for future cooperation. China has established a number of opening-up platforms which are the first ones in the world, such as China International Import Expo, China International Supply Chain Expo, and China International Fair for Trade in Services. Sweden also has many distinctive exchange platforms. I hope that Chinese and Swedish enterprises and chambers of commerce can make full use of these platforms to have more exchanges and communication, enhance friendship, deepen cooperation, and bring more benefits to our two peoples. Chinese embassy in Sweden is willing to provide assistance within our capacity for mutual group visits, field inspection and business networking between the two sides.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to our old and new friends present, for your efforts in promoting better development of China-Sweden economic and trade relations. I hope we will further strengthen exchanges and cooperation, continuously enhance popular support and public opinion for growing China-Sweden relations, grow respectively in market competition, achieve common development by cooperating in various fields, foster a partnership on industrial and supply chains featuring stability and mutual trust, and create a better future for China-Sweden economic and trade cooperation.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: Energy industry; Cooperation; Foreign investment; Consumption; International trade; Multinational corporations; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Supply & demand; Free trade; Manufacturing; Growth rate; Economic growth
: : Energy industry Foreign investment Consumption International trade Multinational corporations Gross Domestic Product--GDP Supply & demand Free trade Manufacturing Economic growth
: Sweden; China
: Xi Jinping
: China: Keynote Speech by Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin at the Working Lunch Hosted by Sweden-China Trade Council
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: May 13, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3053575214
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group May 13, 2024
: 2024-05-11
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
I was born and raised in Greece. These are the 11 best luxury resorts in the country that are actually worth the money.
: Fani Mari. 
: - I'm from Athens, Greece, and I travel around the islands all the time staying at luxury resorts.
- Some of my favorite spots in Crete are Stella Island Resort and ACRO Suites.
- Sani is the best family-friendly resort, and Euphoria Retreat in Mystras is great for relaxing.
Traveling in Greece is always an adventure — even for a local like me.
Delta Air Lines recently ranked my hometown of Athens on its list of most-searched destinations for this summer, so I know plenty of other visitors are set to hit the islands in a few months. And if you're looking for luxury, I've found some of the best resorts in the country.
Here are my favorite luxury hotels in Greece, from Athens to Mykonos.
One&Only Aesthesis Resort, Athens
One&Only is a global brand, but the chain's first luxury resort in Greece is located in Glyfada, right by the sea.
It sits next to acres of protected forests that instantly make me feel like I'm on a tropical holiday — without leaving Athens.
The resort's interior design is unparalleled, with clean and unique mid-century details. It is also home to Greece's first Guerlain spa (a French luxury brand). The spa boasts quiet opulence and offers treatments created specifically for the space.
After exploring the grounds by bike, I like to enjoy a group Pilates class or a quick dip in the pool that overlooks the Athenian Riviera.
Kea Retreat, Kea
Kea, an island close to Athens, is known for its raw, natural beauty.
The island's titular boutique resort is the perfect relaxation spot. It offers serenity within a secluded, remote bay and even houses its own farm.
Kea also hosts wellness retreats throughout the year with local and international experts. And the food is exceptional — the fresh dishes always leave me feeling amazing afterward.
The Rooster, Antiparos
Located on the quiet side of Antiparos Island (Paros' little sister), The Rooster highlights the wonderful rawness of its natural environment.
The resort, which sits within hills and sand dunes and overlooks an unspoiled beach, is the perfect spot for a peaceful stay. Plus, there are only 16 private houses, making it a little more exclusive and special.
Once you've soaked in the sun for the day, the resort's restaurant and bar offer stunning views, great food, and delicious cocktails.
Euphoria Retreat, Mystras
Located in the ancient city of Mystras (a UNESCO-protected area), Euphoria Retreat is a holistic luxury resort that bridges modern and traditional touches.
The pool and spa area are a modern, immersive, multisensory experience. Everything is so beautiful, I wish I could stay here forever.
The resort offers various outdoor activities and retreat programs based on traditional Chinese medicine and Greek techniques designed to help people reconnect with their bodies.
Cavo Tagoo, Mykonos
A resort guide to Greece would never be complete without a spot in Mykonos, and I think Cavo Tagoo is the best hotel on the island.
From the luxurious cave suites and sun-deck infinity pool to the restaurant and bar overlooking the Aegean Sea, the resort has a bit of everything. Cavo Tagoo even offers bespoke experiences through its in-house concierge.
In typical Cyclades' style, everything is white or blue, finished with crisp linen and natural wood furnishings.
I recommend enjoying a sunset dinner at Meraki (a luxurious, modern take on Greek and Mediterranean cuisine) with mezze dishes and fresh fish.
Stella Island Resort, Heraklion, Crete
Stella Island is an adults-only resort that's great for solo women, couples, or honeymooners.
The resort's luxurious design features dark wood and bright whites, which contrast nicely with the natural blues and greens of the surrounding landscape. Its rooms resemble the floating bungalows popular in the Maldives.
Guests can relax in the seemingly endless lagoon pools and get a massage at the Anassa Spa.
ACRO Suites, Agia Pelagia, Crete
Stone villas emerge from the cliffs' staggering edge at the luxurious and modern ACRO Suites Resort.
The elegance is evident throughout the resort, which is decorated in natural grays, browns, and whites. The landscape, right on the edge of the sea, is also impressive and unique.
I like to immerse myself in hiking, yoga, and cultural activities during my stay.
Crete is known for its excellent food, and the resort's restaurants are no exception. They boast organic and fresh ingredients from the island and are not to be missed.
Lesante Cape, Zakynthos
In addition to its wonderful scenery, Lesante Cape has traditional but modern architecture, earthy tones, and stone buildings. The resort is built like a traditional Greek village, with a taverna and a museum for socializing.
The food is also a memorable experience. There are 10 restaurants and bars serving proper Greek cuisine (using local ingredients, some from its own gardens) in a fine-dining setting.
Finally, the spa is a calming oasis and a must-visit for a treatment.
Sani Resort, Kassandra, Halkidiki
Sani, a family-friendly resort in northern Greece, is known for its luxurious setting and excellent gastronomic experiences.
The five-hotel property is located within a pine forest, creating a beautiful escape.
The activity options here are endless, with dozens of restaurants, 13 bars, five spas, and many sports facilities. It also has seven beautiful beaches, several pools, and plenty of hiking or walking trails.
If you're traveling with young ones, kids under 12 can stay for free. Plus, Sani offers a complimentary kids' club for guests ages 4 to 12 and a teens' club for anyone 12 to 17.
Milos Cove, Milos
In Milos — the birthplace of Aphrodite in Greek mythology and one of my personal favorite islands — I stay at Milos Cove.
The resort is a hidden gem, with architecture and decor inspired by the island's natural geology.
It's a luxurious and relaxing space, complete with a beautiful spa, large pools at the edge of the cliff, and a private beach.
Amanzoe, Porto Heli
Amanzoe Resort is located within UNESCO-protected ruins in the beautiful Peloponnese region.
I love taking in the endless views of the Aegean Sea and olive trees, swimming at the resort's private beach club, and riding a speedboat to the neighboring Spetses Island.
: Islands; Resorts & spas; Food; Restaurants
: : Resorts & spas Restaurants; : 72251 :‎ Restaurants and Other Eating Places 72111 :‎ Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: Aegean Sea; Greece; Crete; Mykonos
/: : United Nations Educational Scientific & Cultural Organization; NAICS: 928120
: 72251: Restaurants and Other Eating Places; 72111: Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: I was born and raised in Greece. These are the 11 best luxury resorts in the country that are actually worth the money.
: Fani Mari
: Business Insider, US edition; New York
: 2024
: May 10, 2024
: Travel
: Insider, Inc.
: New York
/: United States, New York
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--United States
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3053189811
URL: 
: Copyright Insider, Inc. May 10, 2024
: 2024-05-11
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Esther, Future Fair and NADA New York Reviews: Gem Hunting; New York Art Week's many fairs often fell flat, but with so much art on view it was still possible to find exciting works among the noise.
: Kelly, Brian P. 
: While Frieze might be the centerpiece of New York Art Week, numerous other gallery openings, talks, performances and alternative fairs offer art lovers plenty of chances to find something to connect with. Unfortunately, the easiest way to sum up this year's fairs is: inert. It's not that the work on view is bad, just that much of it fails to thrill. Nevertheless, with so much work on view across the city, there is still excitement to be discovered, even if it takes a little searching.
On the east side of Manhattan, at the Estonian House, a 19th-century Beaux Arts townhouse, Esther is a new presentation that upends our usual notions about what art fairs are. Spread across three floors, it eschews the brightly lighted white cubes ubiquitous at such gatherings; gallery representatives are few and far between; elitist hob-nobbing and back-slapping are in short supply. It's an intimate presentation with just 26 exhibitors, and the inviting layout makes the whole thing feel more like taking a tour of an aesthete's home than going to a sales convention.
It's a welcome break from the norm that doesn't always work. Tamo Jugeli's large canvases, shown by Gallery Artbeat, feature softly expressive dogs and calming pastel colors, enlivened by brightly hued patches of squares that call to mind Stanley Whitney. But being displayed in a low-ceilinged basement whose dreariness is a stark departure from the upper floors makes the cheery paintings feel claustrophobic. Similarly, pieces in the building's cafe make for awkward viewing when you have to lean across someone sipping a coffee.
But when the displays work, they work well. In the billiards room, playful ceramics that deploy imagery from cartoons, Americana and Japanese erotica are scattered across the felt and tucked into a fireplace. These creations by duo Skuja Braden, shown by kaufmann repetto, embody a tongue-in-cheek elegance that's a perfect fit for the space. The Blue Room, with its vibrant walls, features a soulful portrait from Bony Ramirez—less in-your-face than some of his other works that deal with colonization and his Dominican upbringing, but still moving—and a captivating video by Oliver Herring of performers rolling over gravel, splashing themselves with glitter and paint, and slowly grappling. (Both artists are shown by BANK Gallery.) While not without faults, Esther refreshes the art-fair model.
In Chelsea, Future Fair has quickly become a favorite stop during New York Art Week, with small and midsize galleries exhibiting exciting new voices. It's disappointing, then, that this year's presentation, comprising some 60 galleries, is a largely staid affair that does little to distinguish itself from the other events competing for visitors. Even so, there were a few gems
Two series explored the way artists can infinitely reinvent the same subject. Jeff Bliumi's paintings of Uber drivers, shown by Opening Gallery, brought a sense of humanity to those performing the often thankless job. His view from the back seat morphs from canvas to canvas, revealing how drivers' vehicles are often a second home of sorts, with little details—frequently religious objects—shedding light on their identities and the way they make the mass-manufactured interiors of cars more personal. In Galleri Urbane's space, Drea Cofield's "Send N*des" series updates a classical subject for the 21st century. Soliciting images on OnlyFans, Ms. Cofield duplicates the naked selfies she received in oils. Some, as expected, are erotic and exhibitionistic, yet others are reserved, sensual but not sexy—bodies are reflected in mirrors and windows, hidden behind textiles, or only hinted at through shadows.
At Mama Projects, Mia Weiner's hand-woven tapestries also explored the body, focusing on touch and connection, with their highly realistic, headless figures—created via a process of photographing, digital image editing, and detailed plotting before she weaves—reclining on one another, linking arms or caressing knees. And Lorena Lohr's paintings at Soho Revue's booth playfully mashed up pinup girls with cowboy-western influences and art-historical arrangements.
While these artists focused on the human form, Karen Seapker's paintings tackle nature, specifically the garden she tends outside her home in Nashville. The surrealist works, bursting with color, also allude to classical myth and artists like Derek Jarman, an avant-garde filmmaker who was also himself a gardener. The sweeping, interlocking stems of "Low Five" bring to mind stained glass windows and Joseph Stella's 1939 painting of the Brooklyn Bridge; "Sisyphus With Seedling" is weighty but not mopey, a reminder of rebirth in the face of hardship. Her pieces are certainly one of the highlights of New York Art Week.
Also in Chelsea, NADA brought together nearly 100 exhibitors for the 10th edition of its New York fair. The work here was largely competent, but even with the expansive roster one had to hunt for true standouts.
Marigold Santos, at Patel Brown, proved to be one. I've written about Ms. Santos and her work before so was pleased to see that her practice continues to evolve. The paintings here—still tapping into Filipino folklore and deploying the shapeshifting aswang figure—are less aggressive than her previous work, more refined, and more connected to feminist notions of self-presentation.
Also notable among the paintings on view are the works by Pardiss Amerian and Kirsty Budge. Ms. Amerian's pieces, shown by Zalucky Contemporary and inspired by Persian manuscripts dating back to the 16th century, are quiet, semi-abstract works with calming hues—lavender, teal, daffodil—that read like dreamlike places and scenarios: A gangway sinks out of frame, consumed by a roiling plane of periwinkle; a figure holds up a soaring geometric structure. Ms. Budge, presented by Daine Singer, lets her underpainting show through in incredibly layered works whose lush, sensuous forms transform into animals, people and strange creatures that look like they've wandered in from a medieval illuminated manuscript, peering through frames in the canvas or peeking around corners with voyeuristic gazes.
In three dimensions, Wen Liu's wall sculptures, exhibited by Dinner Gallery, explore traditional Chinese medicine, with some of its natural remedies embedded in resin that punctuates modeled clay. That material's shapes suggest ornate frames and anatomical models, a nod to both the artist's heritage and her health struggles. And Mariana Varela's dioramas at Casa Zirio's booth are both enchanting and heavy, telling the story of Colombia's often troubled history but never being depressed by it. In the most grabbing example, clay hippos laze in a river as a boat drifts by in the background—a reference to the animals kept by Pablo Escobar that escaped after his death and have since thrived and multiplied, now often being spotted around the Magdalena River. Though the fairs as a whole may have been disappointing this year, works like these show that, like tracking an exotic creature through the jungle, the effort of the hunt is well worth it.
Esther
Estonian House, through May 4
Future Fair
Chelsea Industrial, through May 4
NADA New York
548 West, through May 5
Mr. Kelly is the Journal's associate Arts in Review editor. Follow him on X @bpkelly89 and write to him at brian.kelly@wsj.com.
Credit: By Brian P. Kelly
: Fairs & exhibitions; Painting
: New York; United States--US
: Esther, Future Fair and NADA New York Reviews: Gem Hunting; New York Art Week's many fairs often fell flat, but with so much art on view it was still possible to find exciting works among the noise.
: Kelly, Brian P
: Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
: 2024
: May 3, 2024
: Art Review
: Arts
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics
e-ISSN: 25749579
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3050302180
URL: 
: Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-05-04
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: In Tibet, parents plead for children to help collect caterpillar fungus
: It's caterpillar fungus harvesting season in Tibet, and parents have staged protests urging Chinese authorities to let their children leave a residential boarding school to help collect the rare ingredient used in traditional medicine, two sources inside the region said.
Gathered in the Tibetan highlands, caterpillar fungus has been used for centuries to treat heart, liver and lung diseases, high cholesterol, low libido and impotence - despite a lack of scientific evidence.
It can fetch US$18,000 a pound, and in rare cases more than US$50,000 a pound.
Parents in Tenchen county, or Dengqen in Chinese, in Chamdo city, in the eastern part of the Tibet Autonomous Region protested on April 27 to allow their children to return home to help with the harvest, on which many families depend to make a living.
Exclusive video footage shared with Radio Free Asia showed over 40 Tibetan parents standing outside the boarding school in Trido township, Chidu in Chinese, with some seen hugging the railings of the school gate.
Most are kneeling with hands folded or their thumbs out, a Tibetan gesture of appeal for mercy, as they shout Please let the children go.
'Summer grass, winter worm'
Families rely on the help of their children, especially the younger ones who are trained in the labor-intensive harvesting of yartsa gunbu, said the first source, using the Tibetan name of the slender brown root-like fungus, which translates as summer grass, winter worm.
The fungus, which originates from dead caterpillars, is found in meadows above 3,500 meters (10,500 feet) in Tibet, parts of China and in the neighboring Himalayan regions of Bhutan and Nepal.
Called dong chong xia cao in Chinese, its scientific name is Ophiocordyceps sinensis.
The fungus can be consumed directly, added to food or liquids, or ground up for use in traditional medicine.
In the past, children studying in what rights groups call colonial-style boarding schools were allowed to return home on weekends and given longer breaks during the April-June period so they could help their families with the harvest.
Tibetan families need all the help they can get during the caterpillar fungus harvesting season because the harvest and sale of the fungus is the main source of income for them, said the second source, who like the first spoke insisted on not being named.
Previously, the school would allow the students to go in batches on longer leave of a week to a fortnight during this period, he said.
During the protest, parents appealed to authorities to show more consideration in allowing the children to go home during the harvesting season by adjusting their vacation time to ensure there would be no disruption to the children's studies and to families' earnings prospects, he added.
None sent home yet after agreement
A day after the protest, county officials intervened in the matter and agreed on April 28 to send some of the students back home, said the sources.
However, in response to an RFA request for confirmation, an official at the local county office said the students had not yet been sent home as of Monday.
RFA contacted the Tenchen County Education Bureau for more information, but officials there refused to comment.
According to a December 2021 report published by Tibet Action Institute, the Chinese government's network of boarding schools for Tibetan children are colonial projects operating under the guise of providing education to Tibetan populations spread across vast areas, but in reality are part of an assimilation campaign promoted by Chinese President Xi Jinping.
Activists and Tibetans fear the long-term implications of these boarding schools, where they say Tibetan children are separated from their parents and homes in an attempt to reduce real contact with their own language and culture and are instead taught primarily in Chinese, with intense political indoctrination.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Parents & parenting; Fungi; Families & family life; Students; Boarding schools
: : 61111 :‎ Elementary and Secondary Schools
: China; United States--US; Tibet
/: : Radio Free Asia; NAICS: 516210
: 61111: Elementary and Secondary Schools
: China: In Tibet, parents plead for children to help collect caterpillar fungus
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: May 2, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3049299635
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group May 2, 2024
: 2024-05-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian's Regular Press Conference on April 19, 2024
: From April 20 to 28, Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Secretary of the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission of the CPC Chen Wenqing will travel to Russia to attend the 12th International Meeting of High Representatives for Security Issues and visit Russia at the host's invitation.
CRI: Foreign Minister Wang Yi is on an official visit to Indonesia upon invitation from April 18 to 19. Can you brief us on the visit?
Lin Jian: Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi is on a visit to Indonesia from April 18 to 19. He met with Indonesian President Joko Widodo and President-elect Prabowo Subianto respectively. Foreign Minister Wang co-chaired the Fourth Meeting of the China-Indonesia High-Level Dialogue Cooperation Mechanism with Indonesia's Coordinator for Cooperation with China Luhut Binsar Pandjaitan. Foreign Minister Wang held talks with Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi and they met the press together.
Foreign Minister Wang Yi said under the strategic guidance of President Xi Jinping and President Joko Widodo, the two countries have opened a new chapter of building a community with a shared future. The impressive achievement that China and Indonesia made in growing our relations is a result of a shared commitment to strategic independence, mutual trust, mutual assistance, win-win cooperation and fairness and justice. The two sides need to continue deepening strategic mutual trust, synergize development strategies, upgrade practical cooperation through high-quality Belt and Road cooperation and work to build a China-Indonesia community with a shared future with regional and global impact.
The Indonesian side said its government attaches high importance to growing its ties with China and underscored Indonesia's commitment to the one-China policy. In recent years, the two countries' comprehensive strategic partnership has maintained a sound momentum of growth. Indonesia looks forward to working with China to carry forward and further advance bilateral strategic cooperation on a higher level, uphold mutual respect, increase mutual benefits and jointly contribute more stability and positive energy for regional and global development and prosperity.
The two sides agreed that our two countries need to carry forward our fine tradition in cooperation and help each other in making steady progress in our respective paths toward modernization with distinctive characteristics. Our two countries need to put development first, stand for universally-beneficial and inclusive economic globalization and oppose unilateralism and protectionism. Our two countries need to enhance multilateral collaboration, move toward an equal and orderly multipolar world, oppose stoking division and bloc confrontation in the region and uphold the common interests of the vast developing countries.
The two sides had in-depth communication on the Middle East situation and other international and regional issues of mutual interest and stressed readiness to work with the international community to play a constructive role in easing regional tensions.
AFP: Iran's state media reported that there were explosions in the central province of Isfahan today. US officials later told media that Israel launched the attack. What is China's response to these reports?
Lin Jian: China noted the reports. We oppose any action that could further escalate the situation.
Anadolu Agency: The US vetoed a United Nations Security Council resolution demanding Palestine's full membership at the UN. Twelve member states including China voted in favor but the resolution couldn't be passed because of US veto. What's China's comment about the US veto and the outcome of the vote?
Lin Jian: China's Permanent Representative to the United Nations has fully stated our position in his explanation of vote. An independent State of Palestine has been a long-cherished dream for generations of Palestinians. Full UN membership for Palestine is a crucial step in this historic process. Palestine first submitted a membership application as early as 2011. It was US opposition then that the Council's action was put on hold. Thirteen years later, it was again US veto that denied Palestine full UN membership and shattered the decades-long dream of the Palestinian people. History and people of the world will not forget this unconscionable act.
The Palestinian-Israeli conflict is still persisting. A severe humanitarian crisis continues to unfold in Gaza. The US denied Palestine's full UN membership, but it can't deny the region's call for immediate ceasefire, the Gazans' need for humanitarian aid, and the global desire for a just and lasting solution to the question of Palestine. The international community needs to fully implement relevant UNSC and UNGA resolutions, fully respect the will of the Palestinian people, return to the two-State solution and establish an independent State of Palestine at an early date. Only by doing so can there be peace between Palestine and Israel, harmony between Arab and Jewish peoples, and lasting peace in the Middle East.
On the question of Palestine, China always stands on the side of peace, justice and human conscience. China firmly supports full UN membership for Palestine, and will continue to work relentlessly and constructively with relevant parties to bring an early end to the fighting in Gaza, alleviate the humanitarian catastrophe, and implement the two-State solution.
China Daily: We noted that recently the US has kept hyping up the issue of China's overcapacity. Do you have any further comment on the issue of overcapacity?
Lin Jian: Blaming China for overcapacity is not new. Years ago, the US accused China of overcapacity for exporting many high-quality, low-cost products. Now it is sticking the label of overcapacity to China's export of new energy products. The US exports 80 percent of its chips, especially advanced chips and is a large exporter of pork and agricultural products. Is that overcapacity according to US logic? In fact, the ratio of export to production for Chinese new energy vehicle is far lower than that of Germany, Japan and the ROK. This is certainly not dumping extra products into the global market. Overcapacity may look like an economic issue, but truth is, the US is using it to hit Chinese industries and give the US itself an unfair advantage in market competition. It's another example of US economic coercion and bullying.
In today's world, supply and demand are both global, and the capacity of each country is determined by comparative advantage. This must be seen from an objective, dialectical and rational perspective based on the laws of economics. China's leading edge in new energy is gained through strong performance, tech innovation and full-on market competition. A sick person doesn't get well by forcing others to take the medicine. Those who use overcapacity to justify protectionism have nothing to gain and will only destabilize global industrial and supply chains, harm emerging sectors and hinder the world's climate response and green transition. We urge the US to abandon the hegemonic mindset, keep an open mind, play fair, observe market economy principles and international trade rules, provide a truly world-class, market-oriented and law-based environment for trade and economic cooperation, and work with the rest of the world to advance universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization.
Xinhua News Agency: Amid the tense international landscape and frequent regional conflicts and turbulence, traditional and nontraditional security challenges keep emerging. Over the past two years since the Global Security Initiative was put forward by China, we have contributed to resolving global security difficulties and promoting common security of humanity. Can you share more details with us?
Lin Jian: In April 2022, President Xi Jinping put forward the Global Security Initiative (GSI) which is an important concept and action plan. Over the past two years, China has implemented the vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind and worked with the international community to fully implement the GSI and make important progress.
The GSI has built up international consensus on seeking common security through solidarity and cooperation. The initiative advocates a new path to security featuring dialogue over confrontation, partnership over alliance and win-win over zero-sum. Two years on, the GSI has gained the support and recognition of over 100 countries and international and regional organizations. It has been written into a host of bilateral and multilateral documents of exchange and cooperation signed between China and other countries or international organizations. The cooperation under the GSI framework is advancing steadily.
The GSI has provided viable solutions to solving disputes and differences, and managing risks and crisis. In particular, China released position papers on the Ukraine crisis, the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and the Afghan issue to strive for peace talks and play a constructive role for the political resolution of regional hotspots. China facilitated the reconciliation between Saudi Arabia and Iran, and set off a wave of reconciliation across the Middle East. We have set a good example for relevant countries in the region to resolve disputes, and uphold good-neighborliness and friendship.
The GSI has provided strong impetus to uphold global peace and tranquility. China released the Global Security Initiative Concept Paper, and has deepened international cooperation on peacekeeping, counter-terrorism, climate change, disaster relief and the fight against transnational organized crime. Facing security difficulties in emerging areas, such as cybersecurity and AI governance, China released the Global Initiative on Data Security and the Global AI Governance Initiative to set the pace for international security governance in emerging areas.
The GSI has improved international security dialogue and platform and guided regional security cooperation to move forward. China has advanced security exchange and cooperation under the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building Measures in Asia, and East Asia cooperation. We have established a host of international platforms on security exchange and dialogue, such as Beijing Xiangshan Forum, the Global Public Security Cooperation Forum (Lianyungang), the China-Africa Peace and Security Initiative and the China-Latin America High-level Defense Forum. We have pooled the consensus and efforts of the international community to address security challenges.
As an important public good offered by China to address international security challenges, the GSI is increasingly relevant to the times and much more valuable. All peace-loving and development-minded countries and organizations are welcome to join in GSI cooperation with China to jointly build a better world with lasting peace and common security.
Reuters: This is regarding Israel's attack of Iran's Isfahan city. Iran this week told Minister Wang Yi that it has no intention to further escalate tensions in the Middle East after its attack over the weekend. Given this latest attack by Israel, would China engage in further discussions with parties in the Middle East? In particular, will China talk to Israel?
Lin Jian: China opposes any action that further escalates tension in the Middle East and will continue to play a constructive role in easing the situation.
CCTV: US President Biden said in his speech in Pittsburgh that for too long, the Chinese government has poured state money into Chinese steel companies, pushing them to make so much steel and it ends up dumping the extra steel into the global markets at unfairly low prices, which caused damage in America. He said the US Trade Representative is investigating China's steel and aluminum sectors and threatened to triple the tariff rates for both steel imports and aluminum imports from China. He said that the administration is also taking a real hard look at the Chinese government's industrial practices when it comes to global shipbuilding, and that if the Chinese government is doing that and the unfair tactics to undermine free and fair trade competition in the shipping industry, the US will take action. Do you have more comments on that?
Lin Jian: Those comments are far-fetched. They hurt China-US trade ties and deviate from the common understandings between the two presidents in San Francisco. China expresses grave concern and dissatisfaction over those comments.
First, China's steel sector is mainly aimed at meeting domestic demand and receives no export-oriented subsidies. Only 5 percent of our steel is exported, far lower than Japan, the ROK and other steelmakers, which means the influence of our steel exports on the international market is very limited. The US, on the other hand, spends hundreds of billions of dollars on discriminatory domestic subsidies and abuses export controls citing national security, which hinders normal international trade in chips and other products. What a double standard for the US to accuse China of non-market practices.
Second, various US studies show that the US shipbuilding industry lost its competitive advantage many years ago due to over-protection. The growth of relevant industries in China is a result of companies' tech innovation and participation in market competition. It also benefits from China's fully-fledged industrial manufacturing system and vast domestic market. Blaming US's own industrial woes on China lacks factual basis and economic common sense.
Third, according to WTO ruling, the former US administration was wrong to impose additional steel and aluminum tariffs on certain WTO members and launch Section 301 investigation and raise tariffs on China. Instead of correcting its mistake, the US chose to double down on it by threatening with new tariff hikes and announcing a new Section 301 investigation.
China will closely follow how the investigation proceeds. We urge the US to be prudent in its words and deeds, stop manipulating issues on China in the election year, stop turning economic and trade issues into security ones, lift additional tariffs on China and stop imposing new ones. China will take all steps necessary to firmly defend our own rights and interests.
Global Times: It's reported that the Philippines' Department of Foreign Affairs issued the Statement in Response to Chinese Statement on the PH-JP-US Trilateral Summit. It said that the trilateral cooperation is a partnership and a cooperative framework for the promotion of peace, stability and economic prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. It should not be considered a threat by any peace-loving country. China's unwarranted references to the Cold War misrepresent the peaceful purpose of the trilateral cooperation. China should reflect upon its actions in the South China Sea, observe international law and promote regional peace and stability. What's China's comments?
Lin Jian: China has made its position clear on the trilateral summit between the US, Japan and the Philippines. What's the true purpose of the summit? Are they seeking regional peace and cooperation or engaging in group politics and forming exclusive groupings? The people are not blind. The Philippine statement in response to China's stance on the PH-JP-US summit has little truth in it. It says nothing about what truly caused the problem, but tries to make the Philippines look like the victim and blame China. It's the Philippines who should reflect on its own actions.
China's position on the South China Sea is consistent and clear. Over the past few months, maritime disputes between China and the Philippines have heated up. The root cause is the Philippines' breach of its commitments, frequent provocations and infringement on China's territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests. The Philippines has even attempted to get forces outside the region on board to embolden itself and put pressure on China. No provocation or coercion will deter China from safeguarding its sovereignty and rights and interests.
The Philippines needs to know that it will not get its way by leaning on the US. The only path to a peaceful and stable region lies in commitment to good-neighborliness, returning to dialogue and consultation and maintaining strategic independence.
China News Service: The China Wildlife Conservation Association and the San Francisco Zoo of the US signed the Letter of Intent on International Cooperation of Giant Panda Conservation this morning. Can you share more about this?
Lin Jian: We noted that China Wildlife Conservation Association released relevant information. We are glad to see the two sides reach a letter of intent on the cooperation on giant panda conservation. It is learned that the two sides will make various preparations and try to send a pair of giant pandas to San Francisco Zoo in 2025.
Giant pandas are not only a national treasure of China but also welcomed and loved by people across the world. They are emissaries and bridges for friendship. The US is one of the first countries to carry out cooperation with China on giant panda conservation. Since the 1990s, the Chinese and US researchers have worked together to successfully breed 17 giant panda cubs, contributing to the conservation and breeding of giant pandas. Meanwhile, the two sides have conducted joint study on the conservation of giant pandas in the wild, their feeding and breeding, and disease prevention, control and treatment. Together, the two sides cracked a number of difficult technical issues, enhanced sci-tech exchanges and capacity building in the conservation of giant pandas and other endangered wildlife, and played a positive role in improving the overall conservation of giant pandas, building closer bond between the two peoples and deepening people-to-people friendship.
As we understand, this round of cooperation will continue to fully tap the collective wisdom, resources and knowledge of the two sides, improve the capability and level of the conservation of endangered species and biological diversity, and contribute to the friendship between the two peoples.
Reuters: Yesterday, the European Union said it sees signs that China is supplying components to Russia that could be used to make weapons. US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen as well as UK Finance Minister Jeremy Hunt also had a discussion on China's role in supplying Russia's military. How does China view these discussions happening among the Western powers?
Lin Jian: China is not a party to or involved in the Ukraine crisis. China's position is fair and objective. We actively promote peace talks and never fuel the flame or seek selfish gains. China and Russia have every right to normal economic and trade cooperation, which should not be interfered with or restricted. The US and some European countries, among others, also trade with Russia. What's important is to reflect on the root cause of the crisis and do something that will actually bring back peace.
CCTV: The US Department of State released its Report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments days ago, accusing China of failing to adhere to its nuclear testing moratoria and conducting sensitive biological activities for military purposes. What's China's comment?
Lin Jian: Year after year, the US releases the so-called report on Adherence to and Compliance with Arms Control, Nonproliferation, and Disarmament Agreements and Commitments. The report ignores facts and is full of preconceptions. On one hand, the report says nothing about the US's poor record on arms control, disarmament, and nonproliferation. On the other hand, the report smears other countries with baseless accusations on their compliance. China firmly opposes it.
On international arms control and nonproliferation, China is committed to true multilateralism and upholds the international system with the UN at its core and the international order based on international law. China has faithfully fulfilled its international obligations and commitments and contributed to upholding the international arms control and nonproliferation system with concrete actions.
In contrast, the US continues to follow a Cold War mentality and keeps stoking major-country confrontation. The US has little restraint in its military build-up and relentlessly seeks absolute advantage in the field of security. This has seriously jeopardized global and regional strategic stability. To sling mud at other countries in order to deflect attention and shirk responsibilities has become the US's go-to tactic. The international community is clear-eyed about this. We urge the US to stop pointing fingers at other countries, take a hard look at its track record in arms control, disarmament, and nonproliferation, and earnestly respond to the legitimate concerns of the international community on the US's compliance.
Dragon TV: It's reported that Tokyo Electric Power Company started to dump the fifth batch of Fukushima nuclear-contaminated water into the ocean on April 19. The discharge is expected to last until May 7 and reach nearly 7,800 tonnes. What's China's comment?
Lin Jian: Since the unilateral launch of the discharge, despite international and domestic opposition, Japan has yet to resolve stakeholders' concerns on the safety of nuclear-contaminated water discharge, the long-term reliability of the purification system and the effectiveness of monitoring arrangement. Even so, Japan went ahead with the fifth round of discharge, essentially spreading the risk of contamination worldwide. This is rather irresponsible. China firmly opposes it.
The ocean discharge of the Fukushima nuclear-contaminated water bears on the health of all humanity, the global marine environment and the global common good. Japan needs to take seriously domestic and international concerns and handle the discharge properly with a responsible and constructive attitude. China urges Japan to cooperate fully in creating an independent, effective and long-term international monitoring scheme with substantive participation of Japan's neighbors and other stakeholders, so as to avoid irrevocable consequences stemming from the ocean discharge.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: Politics; Humanitarianism; International trade; Presidents; International organizations; Peace negotiations; Globalization; US exports; Cooperation; Palestinian people; Alliances; Reconciliation; Truces & cease fires; Protectionism
: : International trade Globalization US exports Protectionism; : 92111 :‎ Executive Offices
: Middle East; Russia; Israel; Iran; Indonesia; United States--US; State of Palestine; China; Gaza Strip
: Wang Yi; Xi Jinping; Joko Widodo (Jokowi)
: 92111: Executive Offices
: China: Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian's Regular Press Conference on April 19, 2024
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Apr 23, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3043177202
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Apr 23, 2024
: 2024-04-22
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Fermented foods sustain both microbiomes and cultural heritage
: Flachs, Andrew; Orkin, Joseph. 
: [...]we first sketched out our plan to link cultural values and microbiology while writing our Ph.D. dissertations at our local deli in St. Louis, Missouri. Participants also collected stool samples each day and mailed in a sample a week after the workshop, preserving a record of the gut microbial communities they created with each bite. Fermented food as cultural medicine Microbially rich fermented foods can influence the composition of your gut microbiome. Because your tastes and recipes are culturally informed, those preferences can have a meaningful effect on your gut microbiome.
: Many people around the world make and eat fermented foods. Millions in Korea alone make kimchi. The cultural heritage of these picklers shape not only what they eat every time they crack open a jar but also something much, much smaller: their microbiomes.
On the microbial scale, we are what we eat in very real ways. Your body is teeming with trillions of microbes. These complex ecosystems exist on your skin, inside your mouth and in your gut. They are particularly influenced by your surrounding environment, especially the food you eat. Just like any other ecosystem, your gut microbiome requires diversity to be healthy.
People boil, fry, bake and season meals, transforming them through cultural ideas of “good food.” When people ferment food, they affect the microbiome of their meals directly. Fermentation offers a chance to learn how taste and heritage shape microbiomes: not only of culturally significant foods such as German sauerkraut, kosher pickles, Korean kimchi or Bulgarian yogurt, but of our own guts.
Our work as anthropologists focuses on how culture transforms food. In fact, we first sketched out our plan to link cultural values and microbiology while writing our Ph.D. dissertations at our local deli in St. Louis, Missouri. Staring down at our pickles and lox, we wondered how the salty, crispy zing of these foods represented the marriage of culture and microbiology.
Equipped with the tools of microbial genetics and cultural anthropology, we were determined to find out.
Science and art of fermentation
Fermentation is the creation of an extreme microbiological environment through salt, acid and lack of oxygen deprivation. It is both an ancient food preservation technique and a way to create distinctive tastes, smells and textures.
Taste is highly variable and something you experience through the layers of your social experience. What may be nauseating in one context is a delicacy in another. Fermented foods are notoriously unsubtle: they bubble, they smell and they zing. Whether and how these pungent foods taste good can be a moment of group pride or a chance to heal social divides.
In each case, cultural notions of good food and heritage recipes combine to create a microbiome in a jar. From this perspective, sauerkraut is a particular ecosystem shaped by German food traditions, kosher dill pickles by Ashkenazi Jewish traditions, and pao cai by southwestern Chinese traditions.
Where culture and microbiology intersect
To begin to understand the effects of culinary traditions and individual creativity on microbiomes, we partnered with Sandor Katz, a fermentation practitioner based in Tennessee. Over the course of four days during one of Katz’s workshops, we made, ate and shared fermented foods with nine fellow participants. Through conversations and interviews, we learned about the unique tastes and meanings we each brought to our love of fermented foods.
Those stories provided context to the 46 food samples we collected and froze to capture a snapshot of the life swimming through kimchi or miso. Participants also collected stool samples each day and mailed in a sample a week after the workshop, preserving a record of the gut microbial communities they created with each bite.
The fermented foods we all made were rich, complex and microbially diverse. Where many store-bought fermented foods are pasteurized to clear out all living microbes and then reinoculated with two to six specific bacterial species, our research showed that homemade ferments contain dozens of strains.
On the microbiome level, different kinds of fermented foods will have distinct profiles. Just as forests and deserts share ecological features, sauerkrauts and kimchis look more similar to each other than yogurt to cheese.
But just as different habitats have unique combinations of plants and animals, so too did every crock and jar have its own distinct microbial world because of minor differences in preparation or ingredients. The cultural values of taste, creativity and style that create a kimchi or a sauerkraut go on to support distinct microbiomes on those foods and inside the people who eat them.
Through variations in recipes and cultural preferences toward an extra pinch of salt or a disdain for dill, fermentation traditions result in distinctive microbial and taste profiles that your culture trains you to identify as good or bad to eat. That is, our sauerkraut is not your sauerkraut, even if they both might be good for us.
Fermented food as cultural medicine
Microbially rich fermented foods can influence the composition of your gut microbiome. Because your tastes and recipes are culturally informed, those preferences can have a meaningful effect on your gut microbiome. You can eat these foods in ways that introduce microbial diversity, including potentially probiotic microbes that offer benefits to human health such as killing off bacteria that make you ill, improving your cardiovascular health or restoring a healthy gut microbiome after you take antibiotics.
Fermentation is an ancient craft, and like all crafts it requires patience, creativity and practice. Cloudy brine is a signal of tasty pickled cucumbers, but it can be a problem for lox. When fermented foods smell rotten, taste too soft or turn red, that can be a sign of contamination by harmful bacteria or molds.
Fermenting foods at home might seem daunting when food is something that comes from the store with a regulatory guarantee. People hoping to take a more active role in creating their food or embracing their own culture’s traditional foods need only time, water and salt to make simple fermented foods. As friends share sourdough starters, yogurt cultures and kombucha mothers, they forge social connections.
Through a unique combination of culture and microbiology, heritage food traditions can support microbial diversity in your gut. These cultural practices provide environments for the yeasts, bacteria and local fruits and grains that in turn sustain heritage foods and flavors.
Andrew Flachs receives funding from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Purdue University, the American Institute of Indian Studies, the United States Department of Education, the American Institute of Indian Studies, the Social Science Research Council, the Volkswagen Foundation, and the National Geographic Society.
Joseph Orkin receives funding from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, the National Institutes of Health, and Université de Montréal
AuthorAffiliation Andrew Flachs, Associate Professor of Anthropology, Purdue University
Joseph Orkin, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, Université de Montréal
: Cultural anthropology; Microbiology; Fermentation; Geography; Yogurt; Cultural values; Councils; Taste; Anthropology; Bacteria; Traditions; Creativity; Humanities; Recipes; Social sciences; Cultural heritage
: Canada
/: : Purdue University; NAICS: 611310
: Fermented foods sustain both microbiomes and cultural heritage
: Flachs, Andrew; Orkin, Joseph
: The Conversation U.S.; Boston
: 2024
: Apr 17, 2024
: The Conversation US, Inc.
: Boston
/: United States, Boston
: General Interest Periodicals--United States
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3040064983
URL: 
: © 2024. This work is published under  (the “License”). Notwithstanding the ProQuest Terms and Conditions, you may use this content in accordance with the terms of the License.
: 2024-04-18
: Publicly Available Content Database
____________________________________________________________
Fermented foods sustain both microbiomes and cultural heritage
: Flachs, Andrew; Orkin, Joseph. 
: [...]we first sketched out our plan to link cultural values and microbiology while writing our Ph.D. dissertations at our local deli in St. Louis, Missouri. Participants also collected stool samples each day and mailed in a sample a week after the workshop, preserving a record of the gut microbial communities they created with each bite. Fermented food as cultural medicine Microbially rich fermented foods can influence the composition of your gut microbiome. Because your tastes and recipes are culturally informed, those preferences can have a meaningful effect on your gut microbiome.
: Many people around the world make and eat fermented foods. Millions in Korea alone make kimchi. The cultural heritage of these picklers shape not only what they eat every time they crack open a jar but also something much, much smaller: their microbiomes.
On the microbial scale, we are what we eat in very real ways. Your body is teeming with trillions of microbes. These complex ecosystems exist on your skin, inside your mouth and in your gut. They are particularly influenced by your surrounding environment, especially the food you eat. Just like any other ecosystem, your gut microbiome requires diversity to be healthy.
People boil, fry, bake and season meals, transforming them through cultural ideas of “good food.” When people ferment food, they affect the microbiome of their meals directly. Fermentation offers a chance to learn how taste and heritage shape microbiomes: not only of culturally significant foods such as German sauerkraut, kosher pickles, Korean kimchi or Bulgarian yogurt, but of our own guts.
Our work as anthropologists focuses on how culture transforms food. In fact, we first sketched out our plan to link cultural values and microbiology while writing our Ph.D. dissertations at our local deli in St. Louis, Missouri. Staring down at our pickles and lox, we wondered how the salty, crispy zing of these foods represented the marriage of culture and microbiology.
Equipped with the tools of microbial genetics and cultural anthropology, we were determined to find out.
Science and art of fermentation
Fermentation is the creation of an extreme microbiological environment through salt, acid and lack of oxygen deprivation. It is both an ancient food preservation technique and a way to create distinctive tastes, smells and textures.
Taste is highly variable and something you experience through the layers of your social experience. What may be nauseating in one context is a delicacy in another. Fermented foods are notoriously unsubtle: they bubble, they smell and they zing. Whether and how these pungent foods taste good can be a moment of group pride or a chance to heal social divides.
In each case, cultural notions of good food and heritage recipes combine to create a microbiome in a jar. From this perspective, sauerkraut is a particular ecosystem shaped by German food traditions, kosher dill pickles by Ashkenazi Jewish traditions, and pao cai by southwestern Chinese traditions.
Where culture and microbiology intersect
To begin to understand the effects of culinary traditions and individual creativity on microbiomes, we partnered with Sandor Katz, a fermentation practitioner based in Tennessee. Over the course of four days during one of Katz’s workshops, we made, ate and shared fermented foods with nine fellow participants. Through conversations and interviews, we learned about the unique tastes and meanings we each brought to our love of fermented foods.
Those stories provided context to the 46 food samples we collected and froze to capture a snapshot of the life swimming through kimchi or miso. Participants also collected stool samples each day and mailed in a sample a week after the workshop, preserving a record of the gut microbial communities they created with each bite.
The fermented foods we all made were rich, complex and microbially diverse. Where many store-bought fermented foods are pasteurized to clear out all living microbes and then reinoculated with two to six specific bacterial species, our research showed that homemade ferments contain dozens of strains.
On the microbiome level, different kinds of fermented foods will have distinct profiles. Just as forests and deserts share ecological features, sauerkrauts and kimchis look more similar to each other than yogurt to cheese.
But just as different habitats have unique combinations of plants and animals, so too did every crock and jar have its own distinct microbial world because of minor differences in preparation or ingredients. The cultural values of taste, creativity and style that create a kimchi or a sauerkraut go on to support distinct microbiomes on those foods and inside the people who eat them.
Through variations in recipes and cultural preferences toward an extra pinch of salt or a disdain for dill, fermentation traditions result in distinctive microbial and taste profiles that your culture trains you to identify as good or bad to eat. That is, our sauerkraut is not your sauerkraut, even if they both might be good for us.
Fermented food as cultural medicine
Microbially rich fermented foods can influence the composition of your gut microbiome. Because your tastes and recipes are culturally informed, those preferences can have a meaningful effect on your gut microbiome. You can eat these foods in ways that introduce microbial diversity, including potentially probiotic microbes that offer benefits to human health such as killing off bacteria that make you ill, improving your cardiovascular health or restoring a healthy gut microbiome after you take antibiotics.
Fermentation is an ancient craft, and like all crafts it requires patience, creativity and practice. Cloudy brine is a signal of tasty pickled cucumbers, but it can be a problem for lox. When fermented foods smell rotten, taste too soft or turn red, that can be a sign of contamination by harmful bacteria or molds.
Fermenting foods at home might seem daunting when food is something that comes from the store with a regulatory guarantee. People hoping to take a more active role in creating their food or embracing their own culture’s traditional foods need only time, water and salt to make simple fermented foods. As friends share sourdough starters, yogurt cultures and kombucha mothers, they forge social connections.
Through a unique combination of culture and microbiology, heritage food traditions can support microbial diversity in your gut. These cultural practices provide environments for the yeasts, bacteria and local fruits and grains that in turn sustain heritage foods and flavors.
Andrew Flachs receives funding from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Purdue University, the American Institute of Indian Studies, the United States Department of Education, the American Institute of Indian Studies, the Social Science Research Council, the Volkswagen Foundation, and the National Geographic Society.
Joseph Orkin receives funding from the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, the Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada, the National Institutes of Health, and Université de Montréal
AuthorAffiliation Andrew Flachs, Associate Professor of Anthropology, Purdue University
Joseph Orkin, Assistant Professor of Anthropology, Université de Montréal
: Cultural anthropology; Microbiology; Fermentation; Geography; Food; Microorganisms; Yogurt; Cultural values; Councils; Taste; Anthropology; Bacteria; Traditions; Creativity; Humanities; Recipes; Social sciences; Cultural resources; Cultural heritage; Dissertations; Microbial activity
: Canada
/: : Purdue University; NAICS: 611310
: Fermented foods sustain both microbiomes and cultural heritage
: Flachs, Andrew; Orkin, Joseph
: The Conversation : Science + Technology; Boston
: 2024
: Apr 17, 2024
: The Conversation US, Inc.
: Boston
/: United States, Boston
: Sciences: Comprehensive Works, Technology: Comprehensive Works
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3040063631
URL: 
: © 2024. This work is published under  (the “License”). Notwithstanding the ProQuest Terms and Conditions, you may use this content in accordance with the terms of the License.
: 2024-10-03
: Publicly Available Content Database
____________________________________________________________
China: Keynote Speech by Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin at the Chamber Executive Club Network Meeting of the Mid-Sweden Chamber of Commerce
: Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin attended the Chamber Executive Club Network Meeting of the Mid-Sweden Chamber of Commerce and delivered a keynote speech. The full text is as follows:
Respected Mr. Oliver Dogo, CEO of Mid-Sweden Chamber of Commerce,
Dear friends from the business community,
Good afternoon!
Thank you Mr. Dogo for your invitation. It's a great pleasure for me to come to Mid-Sweden Chamber of Commerce again and meet with friends from the business community. Today, I would like to share with you my views on China's economy and China-Sweden economic and trade cooperation.
First of all, how is China's economy exactly? It's fair to say that China's economy continues to register recovery growth and the momentum of picking up is consolidated and strengthened. Let's first look at some data. In 2023, China's GDP grew by 5.2% year-on-year. In the first two months of this year, China's added value of industries above designated size increased by 7% year-on-year, manufacturing investment increased by 9.4%, and the total import and export volume of goods increased by 8.7%. The manufacturing PMI rose to 50.8% in March, returning to the expansion range for the first time since October 2023 and hitting a new high in the past year. In the past five years, the return rate of FDI in China has been around 9%, a relatively high level in the world. In the first two months of this year, 7160 foreign-invested enterprises were newly established in China, up 34.9% year-on-year. Of course, China's economy in the process of transformation and upgrading does face some problems that cannot be ignored, such as the weak real estate industry, the recovery of consumption not as expected, and the slight decline of foreign investment, etc. In this regard, we have started to solve these problems and initial effects are taking shape. Transactions on the residential market in many places have gradually stepped out of the downward range and shown signs of stabilization and recovery. In the first two months of this year, the total retail sales of consumer goods increased by 5.5% year-on-year. Actual use of foreign capital went down in quantity, but increased by 10.1% year-on-year in high-tech manufacturing industry. It should be noted that as China continues to promote high-quality economic development, foreign investment in China is also constantly transforming and upgrading. Generally speaking, China's economy has formed good and stable fundamentals in its long-term development, and its overall trend of long-term growth will not change.
Secondly, why China's economy will continue to develop? First, China has lifted itself out of poverty in an all-round way, 10 years ahead of the poverty reduction target set by the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Chinese people have a higher pursuit of material and cultural life and the huge spillover effect has laid a solid foundation for the sustainable development of China's economy. Second, China has entered the ranks of innovation countries, ranking the twelfth on the Global Innovation Index. China's development is a high-quality development driven by innovation, which constantly injects an inexhaustible impetus into the Chinese modernization. Third, China is committed to opening up, sharing opportunities with the world, developing together with other countries and highly integrated into the world economy. China's development is not only attributable to our own efforts, but also inseparable from close cooperation with other countries. Over the years, multinational enterprises have been deeply engaged in the Chinese market. By taking full advantage of China's manufacturing capacity, they have expanded their global production capacity, accelerated their own growth and obtained huge rewards. There is no doubt that self-seclusion and conservatism will only lead to stagnation and backwardness. Trade protectionism may temporarily protect domestic industries, but in the long run its self-handicapping and hinders broader exchanges and cooperation. Therefore, as long as we adhere to openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, China's economy will surely achieve continuous and stable development.
Thirdly, where are the opportunities of cooperating with China? China enjoys strengths such as a full-fledged industrial system, a supersize market in terms of demand and abundant high-caliber labor forces. As a result, China's sustainable development is self-generative, resilient and rich in potentials, providing development opportunities for foreign-funded enterprises. China and Sweden share similar development concepts, complement each others' industrial advantages, and both attach great importance to technological innovation and sustainable development. There is broad space for cooperation in the fields of technological application, green and low carbon development. Ascatron AB in the semiconductor field is a good example. In 2016, Ascatron AB and Shenzhen Bronze Sword Technology Co.,Ltd established a joint venture named Shenzhen Basic Semiconductor Co., Ltd, which rapidly became a leading enterprise in the industry. We believe that walking with China means walking with opportunities, and investing in China means investing for the future.
Next, I would like to talk about how to view China-Sweden economic and trade relations. For a long time, China and Sweden's friendly exchanges and practical cooperation have brought real benefits to both our two countries and the peoples and have laid a solid foundation for enterprises' future cooperation. In recent years, more and more Chinese enterprises have come to Sweden for cooperation. In the fields of new energy, electric vehicles and some other sectors, the cooperation has increased its share. For example, Senior Material and several other Chinese companies are providers of lithium battery for Northvolt. Shanghai PTL is about to land in Sweden and start cooperation with Northvolt too. At present, economic and trade relations between the two countries are generally stable. China remains Sweden's largest trading partner in Asia and Sweden is still China's largest trading partner in the Nordic region. Of course, we shouldn't stop here since there is a lot we can do together. We should keep expanding areas of cooperation and seek more business opportunities in continuous exchanges and cooperation.
Furthermore, I'd like to talk about how to strengthen China-Sweden economic and trade cooperation. Since I took office two years ago, I've visited many Swedish enterprises. I can sense that most of them are willing to do business with the Chinese people and they have exceptional business capacity and technical conditions to carry out future cooperation with China. In this regard, I would like to make a few suggestions on strengthening bilateral economic and trade cooperation.
First, further expand areas of cooperation. As the economy develops, demand structure in China is changing towards a multi-level and diversified direction. On the basis of maintaining traditional trade and cooperation, China and Sweden should give full play to the strengths of cooperation in green, low-carbon, environmental protection and at the same time tap the potential of new materials, innovative medicines, bio-manufacturing, artificial intelligence, big data and other fields related to new quality productive forces, so as to enhance the scope of collaboration and make the pie of shared interest even bigger.
Second, further strengthen cooperation on innovation. Innovation is the internal momentum for enterprise development. Sweden is leading in innovation capabilities in the world with advanced science and technology as well as highly modernized industry. In the current stage of China's ongoing industrial upgrading and transfer, Swedish enterprises can provide exactly what China needs and both sides can reach a win-win outcome. We hope that Swedish high-tech enterprises, especially small and medium-sized enterprises could better participate in China's innovation-driven development strategy, display their strength in China, and harvest their own success in China's new stage of development.
Third, combine closer with two markets' reality. With a developing economy, people's demands are more diversified, and their consumption concepts and living habits are changing. I hope that enterprises from both sides could pay attention to the shifts of the market, explore how to localize technology, R&D, talents, products and continuously produce marketable and differentiated products. At the same time, both countries' enterprises could further innovate the mode of cooperation, work together to explore third markets and achieve mutually-beneficial and win-win cooperation.
Fourth, make full use of all kinds of communication platforms. We welcome all entrepreneurs and friends to visit China seeking cooperation opportunities, especially use various platforms set up by China, such as the China International Import Expo which is the world's first import expo, China International Big Data Industry Expo which is the world's first big data expo, etc. The Chinese Embassy in Sweden will always provide support to China-Sweden economic and trade cooperation. If you encounter any difficulties or problems during your exchanges and cooperation with your Chinese counterparts, we will do our best to assist. At the same time, we will also encourage Chinese companies to carry out exchanges and cooperation in Sweden. What we wish to see is the ever-increasing friendship between the two peoples and continuously strengthened practical cooperation between the two countries. Enhanced economic exchanges and cooperation will undoubtedly be the most beneficial to both sides.
Finally, I sincerely invite all of you to visit China and feel the Chinese speed, the Chinese warmth, to deepen friendship, explore opportunities, pursue common development, and jointly write a remarkable chapter of China-Sweden cooperation.
Thank you!
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: Innovations; Big Data; Sustainable development; Cooperation; Business community; Chambers of commerce; Diplomatic & consular services; Foreign investment; Consumption; Manufacturing; Friendship; Trade relations
: : Big Data Sustainable development Business community Chambers of commerce Foreign investment Consumption Manufacturing Trade relations; : 81391 :‎ Business Associations 92812 :‎ International Affairs
: Sweden; China
: 81391: Business Associations; 92812: International Affairs
: China: Keynote Speech by Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin at the Chamber Executive Club Network Meeting of the Mid-Sweden Chamber of Commerce
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Apr 15, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3038119402
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Apr 15, 2024
: 2024-04-14
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Millennials, Gen-Z drive trend towards low-alcohol drinks
: WILD drinking nights? Nasty hangovers? That seems to be a thing of the past -- and possibly previous generations -- as a growing cohort of millennials and Gen-Zs eschew boozy binges in favour of more health-conscious alternatives.
Chalk it up to the younger generation's values that emphasise personal well-being and balanced lifestyles that are influencing their choices in what they eat and drink.
Says Rachel Tan, food and drink strategist at trend forecasting company WGSN: "This group's unique take on wellness and an aesthetic-fuelled lifestyle (as in looking good on social media) is shaping their preferences in alcohol."
The WGSN Search Index 2023 shows a 20.5 per cent year-on-year increase in interest (globally) in low and no-alcohol drinks.
In the US, a survey commissioned by NCSolutions found that the share of Gen Zers born between 1997 and 2002 who say they plan to drink less alcohol in 2024 jumped 53 per cent year on year.
Adds Tan: "Gen Z's view of nightlife and bar culture is indeed different from generations before. They consume less alcohol, but they're showing more interest in other parts of club culture, namely its social factor."
These younger consumers will still visit bars, she explains, "but they will expect a greater variety of ABVs (alcohol by volume, a measure of alcoholic strength), allowing them to switch between full-strength, low-alcohol and zero-alcohol drinks in the same night with no social stigma".
What Gen Z wants Singaporean Jocelyn Tan, 29, who is studying in Seoul, has cut down on alcohol and looks for a bar's non-alcoholic menu when she goes out. "If I find anything made with non-alcoholic spirits (such as Lyre's or Seedlip), I'll get that first. If not, it's a glass or wine or an Aperol Spritz. Or a lower-proof highball at parties."
She used to drink a lot more, "but I want to take an active step, no matter how small, for my health", she says.
Ye Shin Kang, a 26-year-old South Korean journalist, agrees. "Many of my friends and I abstain from alcohol because drinking too much can build up fatigue and make it difficult for us to concentrate on our work the next day. Also, some of us worry about gaining weight because of drinking."
Li Wei Ching, 32, a digital marketing specialist who flies between Singapore and New York, cites alcohol-induced poor sleep and anxiety as reasons for cutting down.
"Many of my friends don't drink; some are lightweights or get hungover easily. They're generally trying to live a healthier lifestyle as alcohol makes them feel physically bad."
Even men don't want it. French student Yaan Gortais, 22, prefers soft drinks over alcohol even during social drinking sessions. He doesn't like the idea of getting tipsy, and he also doesn't feel the pressure to drink as his friends understand his preference.
Likewise for Jordan Van, 20, a Malaysian student in the UK. He says: "When I go out with friends, I opt for mostly low alcoholic drinks, like beers or ciders, but I actually do prefer non-alcoholic drinks."
Food and beverage marketing consultant Mika Tomiyama has noticed a preference for lower alcohol/non-alcohol drinks in many countries she visits. "It's partially driven by stricter rules on DUI (drinking under influence) but also simply after Covid-19 many live a more health-conscious life."
She adds: "This is not a fad, and the bar industry has to adapt to it and show lots of creativity and effort in their menus. It's no longer about cordial sodas and kombuchas."
Singapore-based bar experts have observed that younger customers have been drinking more consciously nowadays. Barbary Coast's founder Celia Schoonraad thinks that overall, Gen Z approaches drinking in an entirely different way than their preceding generations. "But whether being health conscious is the only driver, I can't say specifically. However, the industrywide surge in 'low and no' alternatives has created a more inclusive food and beverage experience overall."
She continues: "Things like inflation and the increasing cost of living will undoubtedly have an effect on people's choices to imbibe less. However, we are now more aware than ever of the detrimental effects alcohol can have on our system, and people are starting to make better choices for their health. I know a lot of long-term industry professionals, myself included, who are millennials and above who either entirely abstain or drink minimally simply because the alternative is feeling better -- and that is a greater benefit than several drinks have the potential to have."
Schoonraad adds that bars now offer more creative and non-alcoholic creations, thanks to the innovation and accessibility of alcohol-free spirits. This creates an easy avenue for flavour expression, as opposed to the fruit juice-based medleys of yesteryear.
Kentaro Satoh, group general manager of D.Bespoke, agrees that health consciousness is increasingly reflected in recent cocktail trends, with more customers ordering low-alcohol, non-alcoholic and low-sugar options.
Mixology Salon's bartender Kaoru Takii says that there are many customers who visit their bar not to get drunk but to appreciate the well-balanced tea-based cocktails. In terms of the number of customers ordering low ABV cocktails, he has noticed that it is increasing for both male and female customers. "But I think this applies not only to Gen Z but all ages," he adds.
Founder Andrew Pang of traditional Chinese medicine-inspired Bar Spectre believes that consumers are more aware of flavours, and order their drinks based on that instead of choosing spirit-forward classics.
"Top cocktail bars also include a portion of no/low ABV drinks in their menu as part of the cocktail programme rather than keeping a small section of mocktails right before the soft drink section of the menu," he adds.
Schoonraad also notes that Barbary Coast's menus no longer differentiate between cocktails and mocktails. "They are all included in the main section of the menu and are treated with equal importance."
The Backdrop's innovative bartender-owner Dario Knox believes that the trend is related to a supply and demand situation. "People are ordering more low ABV drinks because bars are offering more of them." In fact, Knox had been making low-ABV menus since the early 2009 and 2010. "The response was already great even back then. And it is something that people appreciate."
Going mainstream The trend towards non-alcoholic and low-ABV drinks appears to become a fixture in mainstream consumption patterns, says Mohamed Rudi, manager at Republic at The Ritz-Carlton, Millenia. He adds that by incorporating non-alcoholic and low-ABV drinks into Republic's menu, it can cater to a diverse range of palates and ensure that everyone feels accommodated and valued.
Zana Mohlmann, head bartender of Manhattan (Conrad Singapore Orchard) agrees that the movement towards low-ABV and non-alcoholic beverages is far from a transient trend. "It's a significant shift in consumer preferences that's here to stay. The drinks industry must take note and evolve, offering more creative and inclusive options."
Giovanni Graziadei, director of bars at The Singapore Edition, believes that the trend of sober curiosity and mindful consumption will continue to rise and evolve. "At Punch Room, we will continue to elevate our non-alcoholic beverage programme. We make our non-alcoholic punches complex and layered, presented with as much care and attention to detail to our alcoholic punches."
Continuous creativity This increasing demand for low or non-alcoholic options has pushed bartenders to expand their creativity. Graziadei says: "When designing a menu, non-alcoholic options are no longer an afterthought, but key options that are aligned with their alcoholic counterparts in terms of overall quality, attention to detail and style."
Bar Spectre focuses very much on flavour without the need to maintain a certain level of alcohol in a cocktail. The Tanjong Pagar bar's upcoming menu aims to have a full non-alcoholic list with the option to make drinks into cocktails. "Staying true to our craft, we want to do more than just 'add a shot of vodka' to make a drink boozy. We are developing cocktail mixer recipes such that all drinks becoming cocktails are still well-balanced with a matching taste profile of liquor, modifiers and enhancers," says Pang.
Satoh believes that serving low-alcohol and non-alcoholic cocktails at D.Bespoke is necessary to keep up with consumers' preferences.
He notes that whether the drinks contain alcohol or not, cocktails crafted by expert bartenders reflect their knowledge, skill, and expertise which should continue to be valued.
He adds: "We offer low-alcohol cocktails made with Japanese shochu spirits, sake, and teas. Japanese shochu, with its lower alcohol content and varieties without added sugars, is well-suited for health-conscious cocktails. One of our low alcohol cocktails is Rin -- made with jasmine tea, Sauternes wine and champagne."
According to drinks industry consultant Rachel Tann, bars such as Analogue have taken their menu to the next level with a dedicated non-alcoholic selection of seven drinks.
The 100 per cent plant-based menu features a variety of natural ingredients such as fruits, herbs, spices, teas and citrus oils. Tann adds that nowadays, products such as non-alcoholic vermouth also allow bartenders to create non-alcoholic versions of classic cocktails like the Negroni.
Republic's low ABV cocktails include Flowers made with gin, rhubarb, lemon, champagne and rose, and Space Odyssey with whisky, berries, honey, and champagne.
The bar has a dedicated zero-proof selection featuring non-alcoholic spirits such as Lyre's. "With these, we can create zero-proof gin and tonics infused with botanical delights, as well as spritz varieties," shares Rudi.
Over at Manhattan, there is a variety of low-ABV and non-alcoholic options that mirror the complexity and enjoyment of their alcoholic counterparts.
"Our Aged Bamboo cocktail is barrel-aged in our rickhouse and composed of Fino Sherry, Lillet Blanc, and Cocchi Americano, offering a refined, low-ABV choice," says Mohlmann.
"On the non-alcoholic front, the Dry Queen features fermented strawberry to mirror the flavour complexity of its alcoholic counterpart, the Land of Lola. Both cocktails, when served side by side, look exactly the same, and allow guests to share the same visual and taste experience, regardless of alcohol content."
As for being inventive, Mohlmann notes that "crafting these drinks to have depth and complexity without relying on alcohol involves a different set of skills and ingredients".
But ultimately, their goal as bartenders is to offer an inclusive selection, "ensuring that everyone, regardless of their drinking preferences, can enjoy the bar's social atmosphere".
: Preferences; Alcohol; Millennials; Creativity; Consumers; Bars; Liquor; Generation Z; Trends
: : Consumers; : 72241 :‎ Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)
: Singapore
: 72241: Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)
: Millennials, Gen-Z drive trend towards low-alcohol drinks
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Apr 12, 2024
: Lifestyle
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3037303649
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-04-12
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Millennials, Gen-Z drive trend towards low-alcohol drinks
: Van, Amy. 
: WILD drinking nights? Nasty hangovers? That seems to be a thing of the past -- and possibly previous generations -- as a growing cohort of millennials and Gen-Zs eschew boozy binges in favour of more health-conscious alternatives.
Chalk it up to the younger generation's values that emphasise personal well-being and balanced lifestyles that are influencing their choices in what they eat and drink.
Says Rachel Tan, food and drink strategist at trend forecasting company WGSN: "This group's unique take on wellness and an aesthetic-fuelled lifestyle (as in looking good on social media) is shaping their preferences in alcohol."
The WGSN Search Index 2023 shows a 20.5 per cent year-on-year increase in interest (globally) in low and no-alcohol drinks.
In the US, a survey commissioned by NCSolutions found that the share of Gen Zers born between 1997 and 2002 who say they plan to drink less alcohol in 2024 jumped 53 per cent year on year.
Adds Tan: "Gen Z's view of nightlife and bar culture is indeed different from generations before. They consume less alcohol, but they're showing more interest in other parts of club culture, namely its social factor."
These younger consumers will still visit bars, she explains, "but they will expect a greater variety of ABVs (alcohol by volume, a measure of alcoholic strength), allowing them to switch between full-strength, low-alcohol and zero-alcohol drinks in the same night with no social stigma".
What Gen Z wants Singaporean Jocelyn Tan, 29, who is studying in Seoul, has cut down on alcohol and looks for a bar's non-alcoholic menu when she goes out. "If I find anything made with non-alcoholic spirits (such as Lyre's or Seedlip), I'll get that first. If not, it's a glass or wine or an Aperol Spritz. Or a lower-proof highball at parties."
She used to drink a lot more, "but I want to take an active step, no matter how small, for my health", she says.
Ye Shin Kang, a 26-year-old South Korean journalist, agrees. "Many of my friends and I abstain from alcohol because drinking too much can build up fatigue and make it difficult for us to concentrate on our work the next day. Also, some of us worry about gaining weight because of drinking."
Li Wei Ching, 32, a digital marketing specialist who flies between Singapore and New York, cites alcohol-induced poor sleep and anxiety as reasons for cutting down.
"Many of my friends don't drink; some are lightweights or get hungover easily. They're generally trying to live a healthier lifestyle as alcohol makes them feel physically bad."
Even men don't want it. French student Yaan Gortais, 22, prefers soft drinks over alcohol even during social drinking sessions. He doesn't like the idea of getting tipsy, and he also doesn't feel the pressure to drink as his friends understand his preference.
Likewise for Jordan Van, 20, a Malaysian student in the UK. He says: "When I go out with friends, I opt for mostly low alcoholic drinks, like beers or ciders, but I actually do prefer non-alcoholic drinks."
Food and beverage marketing consultant Mika Tomiyama has noticed a preference for lower alcohol/non-alcohol drinks in many countries she visits. "It's partially driven by stricter rules on DUI (drinking under influence) but also simply after Covid-19 many live a more health-conscious life."
She adds: "This is not a fad, and the bar industry has to adapt to it and show lots of creativity and effort in their menus. It's no longer about cordial sodas and kombuchas."
Singapore-based bar experts have observed that younger customers have been drinking more consciously nowadays. Barbary Coast's founder Celia Schoonraad thinks that overall, Gen Z approaches drinking in an entirely different way than their preceding generations. "But whether being health conscious is the only driver, I can't say specifically. However, the industrywide surge in 'low and no' alternatives has created a more inclusive food and beverage experience overall."
She continues: "Things like inflation and the increasing cost of living will undoubtedly have an effect on people's choices to imbibe less. However, we are now more aware than ever of the detrimental effects alcohol can have on our system, and people are starting to make better choices for their health. I know a lot of long-term industry professionals, myself included, who are millennials and above who either entirely abstain or drink minimally simply because the alternative is feeling better -- and that is a greater benefit than several drinks have the potential to have."
Schoonraad adds that bars now offer more creative and non-alcoholic creations, thanks to the innovation and accessibility of alcohol-free spirits. This creates an easy avenue for flavour expression, as opposed to the fruit juice-based medleys of yesteryear.
Kentaro Satoh, group general manager of D.Bespoke, agrees that health consciousness is increasingly reflected in recent cocktail trends, with more customers ordering low-alcohol, non-alcoholic and low-sugar options.
Mixology Salon's bartender Kaoru Takii says that there are many customers who visit their bar not to get drunk but to appreciate the well-balanced tea-based cocktails. In terms of the number of customers ordering low ABV cocktails, he has noticed that it is increasing for both male and female customers. "But I think this applies not only to Gen Z but all ages," he adds.
Founder Andrew Pang of traditional Chinese medicine-inspired Bar Spectre believes that consumers are more aware of flavours, and order their drinks based on that instead of choosing spirit-forward classics.
"Top cocktail bars also include a portion of no/low ABV drinks in their menu as part of the cocktail programme rather than keeping a small section of mocktails right before the soft drink section of the menu," he adds.
Schoonraad also notes that Barbary Coast's menus no longer differentiate between cocktails and mocktails. "They are all included in the main section of the menu and are treated with equal importance."
The Backdrop's innovative bartender-owner Dario Knox believes that the trend is related to a supply and demand situation. "People are ordering more low ABV drinks because bars are offering more of them." In fact, Knox had been making low-ABV menus since the early 2009 and 2010. "The response was already great even back then. And it is something that people appreciate."
Going mainstream The trend towards non-alcoholic and low-ABV drinks appears to become a fixture in mainstream consumption patterns, says Mohamed Rudi, manager at Republic at The Ritz-Carlton, Millenia. He adds that by incorporating non-alcoholic and low-ABV drinks into Republic's menu, it can cater to a diverse range of palates and ensure that everyone feels accommodated and valued.
Zana Mohlmann, head bartender of Manhattan (Conrad Singapore Orchard) agrees that the movement towards low-ABV and non-alcoholic beverages is far from a transient trend. "It's a significant shift in consumer preferences that's here to stay. The drinks industry must take note and evolve, offering more creative and inclusive options."
Giovanni Graziadei, director of bars at The Singapore Edition, believes that the trend of sober curiosity and mindful consumption will continue to rise and evolve. "At Punch Room, we will continue to elevate our non-alcoholic beverage programme. We make our non-alcoholic punches complex and layered, presented with as much care and attention to detail to our alcoholic punches."
Continuous creativity This increasing demand for low or non-alcoholic options has pushed bartenders to expand their creativity. Graziadei says: "When designing a menu, non-alcoholic options are no longer an afterthought, but key options that are aligned with their alcoholic counterparts in terms of overall quality, attention to detail and style."
Bar Spectre focuses very much on flavour without the need to maintain a certain level of alcohol in a cocktail. The Tanjong Pagar bar's upcoming menu aims to have a full non-alcoholic list with the option to make drinks into cocktails. "Staying true to our craft, we want to do more than just 'add a shot of vodka' to make a drink boozy. We are developing cocktail mixer recipes such that all drinks becoming cocktails are still well-balanced with a matching taste profile of liquor, modifiers and enhancers," says Pang.
Satoh believes that serving low-alcohol and non-alcoholic cocktails at D.Bespoke is necessary to keep up with consumers' preferences.
He notes that whether the drinks contain alcohol or not, cocktails crafted by expert bartenders reflect their knowledge, skill, and expertise which should continue to be valued.
He adds: "We offer low-alcohol cocktails made with Japanese shochu spirits, sake, and teas. Japanese shochu, with its lower alcohol content and varieties without added sugars, is well-suited for health-conscious cocktails. One of our low alcohol cocktails is Rin -- made with jasmine tea, Sauternes wine and champagne."
According to drinks industry consultant Rachel Tann, bars such as Analogue have taken their menu to the next level with a dedicated non-alcoholic selection of seven drinks.
The 100 per cent plant-based menu features a variety of natural ingredients such as fruits, herbs, spices, teas and citrus oils. Tann adds that nowadays, products such as non-alcoholic vermouth also allow bartenders to create non-alcoholic versions of classic cocktails like the Negroni.
Republic's low ABV cocktails include Flowers made with gin, rhubarb, lemon, champagne and rose, and Space Odyssey with whisky, berries, honey, and champagne.
The bar has a dedicated zero-proof selection featuring non-alcoholic spirits such as Lyre's. "With these, we can create zero-proof gin and tonics infused with botanical delights, as well as spritz varieties," shares Rudi.
Over at Manhattan, there is a variety of low-ABV and non-alcoholic options that mirror the complexity and enjoyment of their alcoholic counterparts.
"Our Aged Bamboo cocktail is barrel-aged in our rickhouse and composed of Fino Sherry, Lillet Blanc, and Cocchi Americano, offering a refined, low-ABV choice," says Mohlmann.
"On the non-alcoholic front, the Dry Queen features fermented strawberry to mirror the flavour complexity of its alcoholic counterpart, the Land of Lola. Both cocktails, when served side by side, look exactly the same, and allow guests to share the same visual and taste experience, regardless of alcohol content."
As for being inventive, Mohlmann notes that "crafting these drinks to have depth and complexity without relying on alcohol involves a different set of skills and ingredients".
But ultimately, their goal as bartenders is to offer an inclusive selection, "ensuring that everyone, regardless of their drinking preferences, can enjoy the bar's social atmosphere".
: Preferences; Alcohol; Millennials; Creativity; Consumers; Bars; Liquor; Generation Z; Trends
: : Consumers; : 72241 :‎ Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)
: Singapore
: 72241: Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)
: Millennials, Gen-Z drive trend towards low-alcohol drinks
: Van, Amy
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Apr 12, 2024
: Lifestyle
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3037303628
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-04-12
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Medical rhino horn tourism proposed by South Africa: Wildlife strategy
: Pilling, David. 
: South Africa is proposing to allow tourists to use powdered rhinoceros horn for medicinal purposes within its borders in a strategy to extract more economic value from wildlife. The government is also pushing for a six-fold increase in the consumption of game meat, such as antelope, worth R28bn ($1.5bn) by 2036, and for a similar increase in plant trade and bioprospecting — which involves the use of plants for pharmaceuticals and cosmetics — worth R11.6bn. The revamped 10-year plan, known as the National Biodiversity Economy Strategy, envisages particular financial benefits for Black communities. It will include the expansion of game ranches and hunting on communal and traditionally held lands. Another goal is to increase the amount of land set aside for conservation from 20mn hectares to 34mn hectares by 2040. Barbara Creecy, the environment minister, told the Financial Times that the proposals were a way of ensuring that "people in rural areas have an incentive for conservation". If poorer South Africans living around game reserves were simply excluded, some would resort to land invasions and poaching, she said. Annette Hübschle, an expert on wildlife conservation at the University of Cape Town, said the plans challenged what she called a "fences and fines" approach to conservation. She said the strategy was "interesting on paper but the proof of the pudding will be whether it translates into workable solutions". South Africa is home to roughly 80 per cent of the world's wild rhinos, including some black rhinos which are classified as "critically endangered". Creecy said 450 rhinos were poached last year. The controversial plan acknowledges international support for a ban on the trade of rhino horn and elephant tusks under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (Cites), but says that South Africa should explore "innovative approaches" to domestic trade. The strategy document includes allowing initiatives such as "health clinics to administer traditional remedies using rhino horn for health tourists from the Far East, or ivory carving being done locally for local sale and export for personal use". The plan, which has been approved by South Africa's cabinet but is out for public consultation prior to its implementation, has sharply divided opinion. Creecy said she was unsure if the proposal on rhino horn would "survive the public comment process". There was a potential contradiction, she conceded, between South Africa's position that rhino horn had no medicinal properties and its proposal to market it for medical tourism. Rhino horn is made of keratin, which is the same protein that helps form human hair, nails and skin. In traditional Chinese medicine, it is believed to be a cure for fevers and snake bites and, more recently, has even been proposed as treatment for some forms of cancer. Wandile Sihlobo, an agricultural economics lecturer at Stellenbosch university, said: "What the government is saying is, 'let's give the communities an economic incentive to take care of these lands and assets'. Having an environment that is pristine and people who are hungry is not fair. We have to find a balance." Sihlobo added that a large stock of horns had been created mainly from rhinos that had been trimmed to discourage poaching. Kevin Leo-Smith, a director at Rhino Revolution, which advocates for "any positive approach" to conservation, including sustainable use of rhino horn from live animals, said the overall biodiversity strategy was an important step in applying an economic lens to conservation. The medical tourism component was "creative", he added, emphasising that the key was to make "a live rhino worth more than a dead rhino". 'Health clinics [would] administer traditional remedies for health tourists from the Far East' CREDIT: DAVID PILLING HOEDSPRUIT, SOUTH AFRICA CAPTION: A veterinary team measures a rhino horn in Addo Elephant National Park. The government's strategy aims to increase the amount of land set aside for conservation from 20mn hectares to 34mn by 2040 Michele Spatari/AFP via Getty
: Poaching; Medical tourism; Endangered & extinct species; Wildlife conservation; Biodiversity
: South Africa
: Medical rhino horn tourism proposed by South Africa:   Wildlife strategy
: Pilling, David
: Financial Times; London (UK)
: 6
: 2024
: Apr 8, 2024
: News
: The Financial Times Limited
: London (UK)
/: United Kingdom, London (UK)
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance, Political Science
ISSN: 03071766
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3051701753
URL: 
: Copyright The Financial Times Limited Apr 8, 2024
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text. Content is not loaded until 30 days after it is published.
: 2024-05-08
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Drifting Apart
: Gender From education to the workplace, marriage to political affiliation, the attitude gap between men and women is getting wider.
In a trendy food market in Warsaw, Poland's capital, two female engineers are discussing how hard it is to meet a nice, enlightened man. Paulina Nasilowska got a big pay rise a few years ago. Her boyfriend asked: "Did you have an affair with your boss?" He is now an ex-boyfriend.
Nasilowska's friend, Joanna Walczak, recalls a man she met on Tinder who revealed that he was a "red pill" guy (a reference to The Matrix film, meaning someone who sees reality clearly. In the "manosphere", a global online community of angry men, it means realising that men are oppressed). He thought household chores and child care were women's work, and that women could not be leaders. They didn't have a second date.
Typically, for young Polish women, Nasilowska and Walczak support parties of the liberal left, which take women's issues seriously and promise to legalise abortion. Young Polish men, they complain, hew more to the right, or even to the far right.
Consider last year's election. Then the top choice for 18- to 29-year-old men was Confederation, a party that touts free-market economics and traditional social values. "Against feminists. In defence of real women" is one of its slogans. Some 26 per cent of young men backed it; only 6 per cent of their female peers did.
Young Polish men have their own set of complaints. Feminism has gone too far, say two firemen in their 20s in a small town. Lukasz says he used to be able to go to a village dance party and "the women there were wife material". Nowadays, "they're all posting shameless pictures of themselves on social media", he laments.
The media are "all biased and pushing the culture to the left", complains Mateusz (neither man would give a surname).
In much of the developed world, the attitudes of young men and women are polarising. The Economist analysed polling data from 20 rich countries, using the European Social Survey, America's General Social Survey and the Korean Social Survey.
Two decades ago there was little difference between men and women aged 18-29 on a self-reported scale of 1-10 from very liberal to very conservative. But our analysis found that by 2020 the gap was 0.75. For context, this is roughly twice the size of the gap in opinion between people with and without a degree in the same year.
Put another way, in 2020 young men were only slightly more likely to describe themselves as liberal than conservative, with a gap of just two percentage points. Young women, however, were much more likely to lean to the left than the right, with a gap of a massive 27 percentage points.
In all the large countries we examined, young men were more conservative than young women. In Poland, the gap was 1.1 points on a scale of 1-10. It was a hefty 1.4 in America, 1 in France, 0.75 in Italy, 0.71 in Britain and 0.74 in South Korea. Men and women have always seen the world differently. What is striking, though, is that a gulf in political opinions has opened up, as younger women are becoming sharply more liberal while their male peers are not.
For young women, the triumphs of previous generations of feminists, in vastly increasing women's opportunities in the workplace and public life, are in the past. They are concerned with continuing injustices, from male violence to draconian abortion laws (in some countries) and gaps in pay, to women shouldering a disproportionate share of housework and child care.
Plenty of men are broadly in their corner. But a substantial portion are vocally not. Young women's avid liberalism may spring from a feeling that there is much work still to be done, and that opposition to doing it will be stiff.
The gap does not translate straightforwardly into voting patterns, but it is visible. One poll found that 72 per cent of young American women who voted in House elections in 2022 backed the Democratic candidate; some 54 per cent of young men did.
In 2008, there was barely any gap. Now in Europe, where many elections offer a wide array of parties, young women are more likely to support the most left-wing ones, whereas young men are more likely to favour the right or even the radical right.
In France, in 2022, young men were much keener than young women on Eric Zemmour, a presidential candidate who wrote a book rebutting Simone de Beauvoir, France's best-known feminist. Germany's election in 2021 saw the largest ever left-right gap between the votes of young women and men, according to Ansgar Hudde of the University of Cologne.
In Portugal, where the far-right Chega party surged in an election on March 10, support for it is concentrated among voters who are young, male and less educated. And in 2022, South Korea elected an overtly anti-feminist president; more than 58 per cent of men in their 20s voted for him. Some 58 per cent of women in their 20s backed his rival.
Young and cranky
The attitude gap between the sexes is also visible in how they view each other. People in 27 European countries were asked whether they agreed that "advancing women's and girls' rights has gone too far because it threatens men's and boys' opportunities".
Unsurprisingly, men were more likely to concur than women. Notably, though, young men were more anti-feminist than older men, contradicting the popular notion that each generation is more liberal than the previous one. Gefjon Off, Nicholas Charron and Amy Alexander of Gothenburg University use a Dutch analogy to illustrate the difference between young (18-29) and old (65+) European men.
It is as great, on this question, as the gap between the average supporter of Geert Wilders's radical-right Party for Freedom and the Liberal Democrats.
A similar pattern holds in other advanced countries. Although a higher share of young British men think it is harder to be a woman than a man than think the opposite (35 per cent to 26 per cent), they are likelier than old British men to say it is harder to be a man than a woman.
Young British women are more likely than their mothers to believe the opposite. Nearly 80 per cent of South Korean men in their 20s say that men are discriminated against. Barely 30 per cent of men over 60 agree, making their views indistinguishable from those of women in their 20s or 60s.
In China, pollsters do not ask about voting intentions, but they find a similar divergence between young men and women when it comes to gender roles. Yue Qian of the University of British Columbia and Jiaxing Li of the Shanghai University of Medicine and Health Sciences looked at survey data for 35,000 Chinese people.
In their analysis they found that young men were much more likely than young women to agree with statements such as "men should put career first, whereas women should put family first" and "when the economy is bad, female employees should be fired first".
Young Chinese men's views were not much different from those of older men, whereas young women's views were far more egalitarian than their mothers'. Claire, a market researcher in Beijing (who uses an English name to preserve her anonymity), says she wants a partner who will treat her as an equal and share the housework.
"I think most Chinese men would fail that test," she sighs. Dr Qian notes that when Chinese parents go to "matchmaking corners" in parks, they brag about their sons' jobs and degrees, but hide their daughters' achievements, fearing they will put off potential suitors.
What is going on? The most likely causes of this growing division are education (young men are getting less of it than young women), experience (advanced countries have become less sexist, and men and women experience this differently) and echo chambers (social media aggravates polarisation). Also, in democracies, many politicians on the right are deftly stoking young male grievances, while many on the left barely acknowledge that young men have real problems.
But they do, starting with education. Although the men at the top are doing fine, many of the rest are struggling. In rich countries, 28 per cent of boys but only 18 per cent of girls fail to reach the minimum level of reading proficiency as defined by PISA, which tests high-school students. And women have overtaken men at university.
In the EU, the share of men aged 25 to 34 with tertiary degrees rose from 21 per cent to 35 per cent between 2002 and 2020. For women it rose faster, from 25 per cent to 46 per cent. In America, the gap is about the same: 10 percentage points more young women than men earn a bachelor's degree.
Differences in education lead to differences in attitude: people who attend college are more likely to absorb a liberal, egalitarian outlook. The education gap also leads to differences in how men and women experience life, work and romance.
To simplify: when a woman leaves university in a rich country, she is likely to find a white-collar job and be able to support herself. But when she enters the dating market (assuming she is heterosexual), she finds that, because there are many more female graduates than male ones, the supply of liberal, educated men does not match demand.
'Little-boy mindsets'
Charelle Lewis, a 26-year-old health-care worker in Washington, DC, complains that men her age have "little-boy mindsets".
The dating scene can also be bleak for men who did not go to university. Upwardly mobile women reject them. Michal Pazura, a young Polish dairy farmer, takes a break from inflating tractor tyres and recalls a girlfriend who "didn't like the smell" of the farm and left him to live in a town.
"I wanted a traditional, stable lifestyle. She wanted fun."
Male farmers have such a hard time finding spouses that a reality show called Farmer Wants a Wife is one of the most popular on Polish television. "It's hard to say what young women want in a man these days," says Lukasz, the Polish fireman.
Previously, they just wanted a man with "a stable income, who could fix things in the house ... and who had a driving licence," he adds.
Will the gulf in attitudes affect how many of today's young people eventually couple up and have kids? It is too soon to know. But for those who think the rich world's tumbling birth rates are a problem, the early signs are discouraging.
In America, Daniel Cox, Kelsey Eyre Hammond and Kyle Gray of the Survey Centre on American Life find that Generation Z (typically defined as those born between the late 1990s and early 2000s) have their first romantic relationship years later than did Millennials (born between 1980 and the late 1990s) or Generation X (born in the decade or so to 1980), and are more likely to feel lonely.
Also, Gen Z women, unlike older women, are dramatically more likely than their male peers to describe themselves as LGBTQ (31 per cent to 16 per cent). It remains to be seen whether this mismatch will last, and if so, how it will affect the formation of families in the future.
The backlash against feminism may be especially strong among young men because they are the ones who feel most threatened by women's progress. Better jobs for women need not mean worse ones for men - but many men think it does.
Older men are less bothered, since they are more likely to be established in their careers or retired. Younger men, by contrast, are just starting out, so they "are most likely to perceive women's competition as a potential threat to their future life course", argue Dr Off, Dr Charron and Dr Alexander.
In a recent study, they found that young European men are especially likely to resent women (and feel that feminism has gone too far) if unemployment has recently risen in their area, and if they perceive their society's institutions to be unfair. Anti-feminist views, they add, are a fair predictor of right-wing authoritarian ones.
Not all male grumbles are groundless. In some countries, divorce courts tend to favour the mother in child-custody disputes. In others, pension rules are skewed. Men enter the labour market earlier and die younger, but the retirement age for women in rich countries is on average slightly lower. In Poland, it is five years lower, so a Polish man can expect to work three times longer than he will live post-retirement, while for a Polish woman the ratio is 1.4, notes Michał Gulczynski of Bocconi University.
This strikes many men as unfair. Mateusz, the Polish fireman, recalls when a left-wing lawmaker was asked, if she was so keen on equal rights, what about equalising the pension age? "She changed the subject," he scoffs.
Another factor that particularly affects young men is conscription. They are the first to be called up; women are often exempt. In South Korea, where military service is universal for men and notoriously gruelling, it fuels male resentment. In Europe, conscription is no longer common, but Russia's invasion of Ukraine has made young men in neighbouring countries, such as Poland, more scared they may be drafted, says Gulczynski.
Social media, the lens through which young people increasingly view the world, may have aggravated polarisation. First, they let people form echo chambers. When homogenous groups of like-minded people discuss an issue, they tend to become more extreme, as individuals vie for affirmation by restating the in-group's core position in ever-stronger terms, and denouncing those who dispute it.
When groups of frustrated young men link up online, the conversation often descends into misogyny. In male-dominated Chinese chatrooms the phrase "feminist whore" is common, along with a pun that inserts the character for "fist" into "feminist" to make it sound more aggressive.
Once a man joins an angry online group, the pressure to remain in it is strong. Benjamin, a student in Washington, DC, says he used to be a "red-pill guy ...working as a janitor, eating McDonalds and wallowing in self-pity". He'd watch classes online about how to boost his self-confidence and pick up women. When he quit the manosphere, his friends taunted him as a "blue pill" (someone fooled by the establishment) or a "cuck" (a weak man).
Second, algorithms hook users with content that terrifies or infuriates, making the world seem both more frightening and more unjust than it is. Women who click on #MeToo stories will see more of them; ditto for men who click on stories of men being falsely accused of rape. Each may gain an exaggerated idea of the risks that they personally face.
"When you go into a gym to work out and a woman's in your line of vision, you look at her and all of a sudden you're famous on TikTok for being a sexual harasser or something," says Kahlil Rose, a 28-year-old conservative man in Atlanta. This has not happened to anyone he knows. But he has seen it on his phone, so it looms large in his consciousness.
Benjamin, the student in Washington, offers a similarly gloomy perspective: "Men my age are afraid to get married because they hear a cautionary tale: woman cheats, files for divorce and takes everything he worked for."
Women see a different world online. Julia Kozik, a student in Warsaw, follows a tip she saw on TikTok. When she rides in a cab, she tears out a strand of hair and puts it under the seat in case she is abducted and the police need DNA evidence. "I avoid men at all costs, mostly," she says.
The political left has done a fair job of persuading women that it cares about their problems. But it has not figured out how to talk to men, argues Richard Reeves, a liberal scholar, in Of Boys and Men. Progressives often assume "that gender inequality can only run one way, that is, to the disadvantage of women". And they apply labels like "toxic masculinity" so indiscriminately as to suggest that there is something intrinsically wrong with being male.
Rather than drawing immature boys and men into a dialogue about their behaviour, this "is much more likely to send them to the online manosphere, where they will be reassured they did nothing wrong and that liberals are out to get them".
Making America virile again
Some politicians on the right, by contrast, have found ways to connect with disgruntled males. Donald Trump is an obvious example. He cultivates "an image of virility and manliness", argues Cox of the Survey Centre on American Life. He appealed to young men who don't follow the news by showing up at an Ultimate Fighting Championship event. He also tends "to side with men in cultural conflicts".
In 2018, he decried what he said was a shift in the burden of proof in cases of rape and sexual assault: "It's a very scary time for young men in America when you can be guilty of something you may not be guilty of... That's one of the very, very bad things that's taking place right now."
Progressives may dismiss this as the self-interested griping of a serial abuser. But there's reason to believe that Trump's macho behaviour "resonates with young men", says Cox.
What neither side has done well is to tackle the underlying problems that are driving young men and women apart. Most important, policymakers could think harder about making schools work for underperforming boys. Reeves suggests hiring more male teachers, and having boys start school a year later, by default, since they mature more slowly than girls do.
Also, since "the desegregation of the labour market has been almost entirely one-way", the state could beef up vocational training to prepare young men for occupations they currently shun, such as those involving health, education or administrative tasks. If such reforms help more boys and men adjust to a changing world, that would benefit both men and women.W
THE ECONOMIST

CREDIT: The Economist
: Feminism; Young adults; Women; Elections
: France; South Korea
: Drifting Apart
: The Australian Financial Review; Melbourne
: 32
: 2024
: Apr 6, 2024
: Weekend Fin
: Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
: Melbourne
/: Australia, Melbourne
: Business And Economics--Public Finance, Taxation
ISSN: 04042018
e-ISSN: 14449900
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3033002191
URL: 
: Copyright (c) 2024 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. www.afr.com. Not available for re-distribution.
: 2024-04-05
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Mitsui, Rohto Pharmaceutical take 86% stake in Eu Yan Sang
: Yong, Jun. 
: JAPAN'S Mitsui & Co and Rohto Pharmaceutical have purchased an 86 per cent stake in Eu Yan Sang International for S$687 million in cash.
In a statement on Thursday (Apr 4), Tower Capital Asia announced that its investment holding company, Righteous Crane Holding (RCH), Temasek Holdings subsidiary Blanca Investments, as well as some members of the Eu family were selling the combined stake in the company.
The deal values 100 per cent of Eu Yan Sang at about S$800 million. It was delisted from the Singapore Exchange in October 2016 at a valuation of around S$269 million in a deal with RCH.
Tower Capital Asia said that two members of the Eu family will roll over about 10 per cent of their interest in the company and become shareholders of the consortium to provide guidance.
Eu Yan Sang chairman Richard Eu thanked Tower Capital Asia and Temasek for "transforming Eu Yan Sang into a leading natural health and wellness enterprise", and welcomed the company's new shareholders.
The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to close by June 2024.
Eu Yan Sang was founded in 1879 and currently operates over 170 retail outlets and 30 traditional Chinese medicine clinics in places such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Malaysia. It also has a network across 29 markets and has manufacturing capabilities in Malaysia and Hong Kong.
: Stockholders
: : Stockholders
: Malaysia; China; Asia; Hong Kong China; Singapore
/: : Eu Yan Sang; NAICS: 523150
: Mitsui, Rohto Pharmaceutical take 86% stake in Eu Yan Sang
: Yong, Jun
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Apr 5, 2024
: COMPANIES & MARKETS
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 3032954758
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-04-05
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Remarks by Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin at the Webinar with the Swedish Chamber of Commerce China
: Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin attended the Webinar with the Swedish Chamber of Commerce China and delivered remarks. The full text is as follows:
Respected Chairman Ludvig Nilsson,
Dear friends from the business community,
Good afternoon!
It gives me great pleasure to participate in the webinar with entrepreneurs of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce China. First of all, on behalf of the Chinese Embassy in Sweden, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the Swedish Chamber of Commerce China for your efforts to strengthen China-Sweden economic and trade relations, and express my appreciation to members of SwedCham China for taking root in China and actively participating in China's economic construction. Today, I would like to share a few thoughts on China-Sweden relations and bilateral economic and trade cooperation.
First, China's economy is moving forward steadily, injecting strong impetus into the development of the world economy.
First of all, the Chinese economy rebounded and moved upward with the GDP growth rate ranking at the forefront among the world's major economies. The level of opening up continued to advance. Foreign trade has showed strong resilience. The consumer market has huge potential. In 2023, China's GDP grew by 5.2%, contributing 32% to the global economic growth. China is still the largest engine of the world economy growth. China attracted 163.25 billion US dollars of foreign investment, and the structure of foreign investment in actual use was further optimized. China's import and export volume reached 5.94 trillion US dollars, maintaining the world's largest trading country in goods for seven consecutive years, and the global market share of China's exports remained stable. Consumption expenditure contributed 82.5% to economic growth, driving economic growth by 4.3 percentage points. In the backdrop of interwoven difficulties and challenges of sluggish world economic recovery, acute geopolitical conflicts, rising protectionism and unilateralism, China's economy grew in a wave-like fashion amid twists and turns and the achievements did not come easily.
Secondly, China has four advantages, namely the distinctive institutional strength, vast market demand, a complete industrial system to ensure supply, and a huge and high-caliber workforce. The socialist market economic system can not only give full play to the advantages of the market economy, but also leverage the strength in pooling resources behind major undertakings. China has a middle-income group of more than 400 million people and is the second-largest consumer market, the largest online retail market and the second-largest import market. China is the world's largest manufacturing country and the only country in the world that owns all the categories in the UN industrial classification system. The total number of skilled personnel reaches 220 million and the total number of research and development personnel ranks first in the world. China has a number of world-class entrepreneurs. China's economic development has strong endogenous power, resilience and potential.
Thirdly, as the second largest economy in the world, China has formed good and stable fundamentals in its long-term development. Even if there are some twists and turns, the overall trend of long-term growth will not change. In the process of transformation and upgrading, China's economy is indeed facing some problems that cannot be ignored, but we have started to overcome and solve them. In view of the weakness of the real estate industry, we adopted 16 financial measures and a three arrows policy combination from the three financing channels of credit, bonds, and equity to promote the real estate market to develop steadily and healthily. Faced with the unexpected recovery of consumption, we take a full range of steps of increasing incomes, optimizing supply and stimulating potential demand to promote new consumption represented by green, health and intelligence. In order to improve the investment trend, 700 billion RMB will be earmarked in the central government budget for investment this year. We will also encourage private investment in major projects and will do more to remove various barriers so that private investment can enter, develop, and play its part in more fields. We will ensure national treatment for foreign-funded enterprises, strengthen services for foreign investors, build the Invest in China brand and make it easier for foreign nationals to work, study, and travel in China.
The 2024 Government Work Report sets China's GDP growth rate at around 5% for this year. In setting this target, it takes account of evolving dynamics at home and abroad and other relevant factors and reflects the requirements to pursue progress and to strive to deliver. The IMF predicts that China's economic growth will continue to be higher than the global growth rate from 2024 to 2028. It will be significantly higher than the growth rate of developed economies, and continue to be at the forefront of emerging economies and developing countries. China will advance toward a bright future.
Second, the economic and trade relations between China and Sweden are generally stable, and there is still great potential for future cooperation.
China and Sweden have a long history of economic and trade exchanges. Sweden was the first western country to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China and also the first country to sign a bilateral investment protection agreement with China. For a long time, bilateral friendly exchanges and pragmatic cooperation have brought tangible benefits for the two countries and the two peoples, laying solid foundation for the future cooperation between enterprises. At present, the two countries continue to be each other's largest trading partner in Asia and the Nordic region. In 2023, the economic and trade cooperation between China and Sweden encountered some difficulties, but there were also many highlights.
Firstly, the bilateral trade in goods and two-way investment declined. In 2023 the bilateral trade volume decreased by 8.2%. Swedish investment in China dropped by 18.2% and Chinese investment went down by 23.7%. But we don't need to be pessimistic about this. It is normal for bilateral trade and two-way investment to have ups and downs. The economic and trade structure between China and Sweden is constantly optimized and adjusted, and the proportion of cooperation in emerging areas is increasing. The economic and trade cooperation between China and Sweden will surely develop more steadily, go further and be better.
Secondly, there are many achievements in major projects. A large number of cooperation highlights have emerged in the fields of new energy, new materials, electric vehicles and infrastructure. Chinese companies such as Senior Material, Kedali and Lead Intelligent have continuously deepened their cooperation with Northvolt in the field of lithium batteries. PTL is about to land in Sweden. The first batch of three Stockholm Metro Extension Line projects delivered by CRTG Engineering has all been evaluated as excellent by CEEQUAL and two other subway extension lines are under smooth construction. Scania's second phase project in Rugao Jiangsu has broken ground, which adds powertrain production apart from the whole vehicle project. In 2023, Scania's engine sales in China climbed to the top three in its global market. In February this year, the foundation-laying ceremony of Volvo Automobile Asia-Pacific Headquarters fourth phase was held in Shanghai, providing continuous empowerment for the development, electrification transformation and talent system of Volvo Automobile in the Chinese market. ABB's new factory in Shanghai is praised as its most leading intelligent factory model with the highest degree of automation and flexibility. China has become AstraZeneca's second largest global market and an important growth engine.
Thirdly, the Swedish community remains enthusiastic about cooperation with China. Since I took office two years ago, in order to have a deeper understanding of Sweden and explore more Sino-Swedish cooperation opportunities, I've visited many Swedish regions, dozens of chambers of commerce, companies, Swedish well-known professionals in the fields of science and technology and education, and exchanged views with hundreds of Swedish people from all walks of life. Among them, there are large enterprises, large consortiums, but also small and medium-sized enterprises. There are industries in traditional manufacturing, but also new energy, new materials, and other emerging industries. I am deeply impressed with each visit and I would like to share my feelings with you.
First, Swedish corporation has its unique culture. Relaxing work environment, flat management structure, and unique FIKA culture are common characteristics of Swedish companies. At the same time, different companies also adhere to their own unique corporate cultures and develop a value concept that focuses on quality, safety, practicality, and environmental protection, which is widely approved by consumers from China, Sweden as well as other countries.
Second, Swedish enterprises have strong scientific and technological innovation capabilities. Sweden's innovation capabilities ranked among the world's top, with high-level scientific and technological development and modernized industries. In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises generally have unique competitiveness and strong research and development capabilities, forming the backbone of this innovative country, I believe they present an important growth point for future cooperation between China and Sweden.
Last but not least, most Swedish enterprises are willing to conduct economic and trade cooperation with China. Most Swedish enterprises are optimistic about China's economic prospects. In the view of Swedish small and medium-sized enterprises, Chinese people are pragmatic, barely talking but mostly working. They feel reassured about doing business with Chinese and hope to have the opportunity to cooperate with more Chinese companies in the future for a win-win partnership. Mr Cocozza has participated in the Canton Fair for more than 100 times since 1966, and become a far-spread story of Sino-Sweden economic and trade cooperation. The cooperation between Geely and Volvo is also a benchmark in China-Sweden mutually beneficial cooperation.
Third, seize opportunities, deepen cooperation, and continuously move the bilateral relations forward.
The first is to strengthen confidence and seize market opportunities. Chinese President Xi Jinping has repeatedly emphasized that China's door to the outside world will still open wider. We will continue to proactively benchmark against international high-standard economic and trade rules, continue to shorten the negative list for foreign investment, remove restrictions on foreign investment access in the manufacturing sector, and release market access to telecommunications, medical, and other service industries. We will continue to host major expos such as the China International Import Expo, Canton Fair, and Consumer Expo, implement the free trade pilot zone improvement strategy, create new highland for opening up, and share China's market opportunities with other countries around the world. A survey conducted by the European Union Chamber of Commerce in China shows that 59% of the companies surveyed regard China as one of the top three investment destinations. The Business Confidence Survey Report by the German Chamber of Commerce in China shows that 91% of the German companies surveyed will continue to operate in the Chinese market, and more than half of the surveyed companies plan to increase investment in China in the next two years. The latest survey report released by the American Chamber of Commerce in China shows that more than half of the American companies surveyed rank China as the first or top three investment destinations in the world. De-risking with China means decoupling from opportunities. We hope that the Swedish companies in China can seize the opportunities and grow together with the Chinese market.
The second is to tap potential and deepen green cooperation. The Report on the Work of the Chinese Government 2024 emphasizes the vigorous development of a green and low-carbon economy, which is also one of Sweden's advantages. While consolidating traditional cooperation areas, Sweden and China can actively explore new areas of cooperation such as green, low-carbon, and environmental protection, and invest more in new energy and new materials, innovative medicines, bio-manufacturing and other fields, so as to continuously expand cooperation space. At the same time, in the fields of new quality productive forces such as artificial intelligence and big data, our two countries also have great potential to tap. I hope that high-tech enterprises in the two countries, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, can focus on green development, continue to release potential and expand cooperation.
The third is to explore new models to carry out trilateral cooperation. Swedish multinational companies have strong capabilities, and small and medium-sized enterprises have large growth potential and are highly complementary to Chinese companies. The technological and product advantages of Swedish companies combined with China's capital and market advantages will burst out huge energy and reach the effect of 1+1 greater than 2. We could further innovate cooperation models, work together to explore third-party markets, especially the Belt and Road market, use Swedish technology to contribute to the development of developing and underdeveloped countries, and jointly promote the realization of the United Nations' 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
The fourth is to strengthen exchanges and interactions, and tell a good story of win-win cooperation between China and Sweden. Amity between the people holds the key to sound state-to-state relations. All members of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce China are companies that have been engaged in cooperation with China for years. You have long rooted in the Chinese market and have a good understanding of China. I hope you will share with Swedish people from all walks of life the realities of China's economic development, to help Swedish people have a clearer and more accurate view on China, bring more Swedish friends from the business community to invest and establish businesses in China, and make greater contributions to promoting stable and healthy development of bilateral relations. We will, as always, provide services and assistance to the best of our ability for Swedish friends to develop in China.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to wish you all good health, a prosperous career and a bright future, and wish this event a great success!
Thank you!
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: Innovations; Cooperation; Global economy; Chambers of commerce; Diplomatic & consular services; Small & medium sized enterprises-SME; Foreign investment; Consumption; International trade; Automobiles; Gross Domestic Product--GDP; Growth rate; Research & development--R & D; Economic growth; Trade relations
: : Global economy Chambers of commerce Small & medium sized enterprises-SME Foreign investment Consumption International trade Gross Domestic Product--GDP Economic growth Trade relations; : 81391 :‎ Business Associations 92812 :‎ International Affairs
: Sweden; United States--US; China; Asia
: 81391: Business Associations; 92812: International Affairs
: China: Remarks by Chinese Ambassador to Sweden Cui Aimin at the Webinar with the Swedish Chamber of Commerce China
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Mar 28, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2990079201
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Mar 28, 2024
: 2024-03-27
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Laos: Suspect in Lao bear cub trafficking case is on the run
: A Chinese man found with 16 black bear cubs during a raid of a microfinance institute by Lao authorities last week is on the run, while the cubs are now being cared for by a wildlife conservation group in Luang Prabang province, a district official said Friday.
The incident is the latest case of the illegal transportation of wildlife in Laos - a hub for wildlife trafficking for the exotic pet trade and medicinal purposes. Such activities are banned by the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, or CITES, which protects endangered plants and animals.
On March 17, police from the environment division of Vientiane's Department of Public Security and from Sikhottabong district's public security office raided the Chinese-owned Ya Thai Microfinance Institute in the district's Nongsanokham village to rescue the animals.
Police seized the bear cubs after the Chinese man's Lao wife would not tell them where they came from. They said they arrested her and are searching for the man, who owns the institute, and others who may be involved.
Asiatic black bears, also known as moon bears because of the white or cream-colored crescent pattern on their chests, are listed in CITES' most crucial category of endangered due to overhunting and to loss of habitat as forests are felled.
As a CITES member, Laos must abide by the treaty's prohibition on the international trade of live Asiatic bears or bear parts.
Demand for bear bile
Poachers can demand exorbitant sums for the bears' gallbladders and bile, which are used in traditional medicines believed to cure a variety of ailments.
They extract the bile, which helps protect the bears' livers and prevents gallstones and illness during long hibernations, during which the animals are subdued and jabbed in the abdomen with needles in an attempt to pierce their gallbladders.
The official from the Sikhottabong district office, who declined to be named because he is not authorized to speak to the media, told Radio Free Asia that the Chinese owner of the institute fled after police raided the office, and authorities are now searching for him.
The Chinese man has a history of trafficking wildlife and other illegal activities, he said.
Lao authorities involved in the raid would not comment on the incident to RFA.
No one at the Ya Thai Microfinance Institute answered the phone when RFA called.
On March 20, police handed the cubs over to the Australian wildlife organization Free the Bears, to keep them in its wildlife sanctuary in Luang Prabang, according to a video on the Facebook page of Vientiane's Department of Public Security.
In the video, the cubs, some of which are inside pet carriers, can be heard crying out.
Lt. Col. Chansamouth Chanthalangsone, deputy head of the environment division at the department, said in the video that the bears were brought to the capital city without proper documentation, constituting the illegal transportation of wildlife.
He did not mention how authorities knew to raid the office, though the institute is located in a building where people live close to each other, so they might have heard the bears screaming.
The Free the Bears office in Luang Prabang declined to give RFA any information about the incident, citing the investigation.
In mid-February, Free the Bears took possession of two male moon bear cubs that had been held in a cage for more than two years near the Laos-Thailand border. The bear cubs had been raised by a villager in remote Xayaburi province since their birth.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: International trade; Bears; Raids; Microfinance; Endangered & extinct species; Gallbladder
: : International trade Microfinance
: Laos
/: : Radio Free Asia; NAICS: 516210
: Laos: Suspect in Lao bear cub trafficking case is on the run
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Mar 26, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2974018143
URL:  -is-on/docview/2974018143/se-2?accountid=45062
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Mar 26, 2024
: 2024-03-25
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Thailand: Warning Issued to Protect Sea Fans in Trang
: The Department of Marine and Coastal Resources has issued a cautionary advisory to tourists visiting Koh Sukorn in the Trang province, urging them to avoid disturbing the large red "sea fan" corals that have become exposed due to unusually low sea levels. These sea fans, known for their intricate beauty and ecological importance, play a crucial role in the marine ecosystem by providing shelter for smaller aquatic creatures and aiding in the filtration of plankton.
The department, through a statement on social media, elaborated on the delicate nature of these corals, explaining that sea fans are living organisms that can take over a century to fully grow. Given their slow growth rate and the critical habitat they provide, any form of disruption, whether through touching, trampling, or the dispersal of sediment, can have detrimental effects on their well-being and, consequently, on the broader marine environment.
The vulnerability of sea fans has been exacerbated by their popularity for use in decorations, accessories, and even in traditional Chinese medicine, leading to increased risks of damage and exploitation.
To combat this, Thailand has included sea fans in its Wildlife Conservation and Protection Act, categorically banning the possession, trade, or smuggling of these corals. The legislation stipulates severe penalties for those found in violation, including prison sentences of up to ten years and fines of up to 1 million baht for smuggling or trading activities. Those caught in possession of sea fans without appropriate authorization face up to four years in prison and fines of 500,000 baht.
(National News Bureau of Thailand)
: Fines & penalties; Smuggling
: Thailand
: Thailand: Warning Issued to Protect Sea Fans in Trang
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Mar 19, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2961255014
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Mar 19, 2024
: 2024-03-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
World: What is sleep tourism? The hotels offering pillow menus and a sleep concierge
: Travelling halfway across the world and shelling out on an expensive hotel might seem overindulgent for a good night's sleep.
But studies have found that 35 per cent of people do not feel they get enough sleep, so it's no wonder they are looking to stabilise their circadian rhythms.
This year, 'sleep tourism' is trending as travellers increasingly focus their holidays on getting some quality shut eye.
In celebration of World Sleep Day, here are some novel features hotels have introduced to aid sleep.
BLESS Hotel Madrid, Madrid, Spain: For science-based deep sleep
Located in the glamorous Golden Mile of Spain's capital city, the five-star BLESS Hotel Madrid is looking to science to aid guests' slumber.
Its BLESS Wellbeing Terrace Villa offers an innovative HOGO Bed Wellness Experience, which claims to be scientifically guaranteed to regenerate the body while sleeping.
The mattress is made from a patented silver and graphite mesh to protect against electromagnetic pollution and eliminate radiation built up in the body.
Don't worry, you won't notice a thing while you're dozing, and it should leave you with a boosted immune system and increased melatonin levels.
Lake Como Sleep Ritual, Grand Hotel Tremezzo, Italy: For natural remedies
As one of the prime properties on a lake loved by A-listers, Grand Hotel Tremezzo ensures guests get five-star shut eye.
Their Lake Como Sleep Ritual is offered at the hotel's award-winning T Spa.
The 110-minute total body experience employs the beneficial properties of plants and herbs indigenous to Lake Como to promote deeper sleep.
Unplugged, UK: For going off grid
Sleep experts are constantly reiterating the importance of reducing screen time in advance of bedtime, but it's easier said than done.
Unplugged's off-grid cabins helpfully offer guests no choice when they opt for a digital detox experience.
On arrival at the eco-friendly hut - there are 17 dotted across the UK including near London and Manchester - visitors are asked to place all devices in a lockbox for 72 hours.
Surrounded by nature and with no access to social media, a sweet slumber is more or less guaranteed.
The best part? They supply you with an old-school Nokia phone in case of emergencies.
Zedwell, London, UK: For quiet amid the chaos
With 750 rooms in the buzzing heart of London, Zedwell - the UK's first sleep-centric hotel - promises its visitors a deep, anxiety-free slumber in its soundless, windowless and air-purified cocoons.
You won't be surprised to discover that Zedwell, whose flagship outpost is located in Piccadilly Circus, is soundproof, so it can provide the peace and quiet its team believe is necessary for a proper rest.
You might be more taken aback by the fact that Zedwell's rooms have no windows, but this is only so your slumber won't be disturbed by the light of day.
The hotel isn't plunged into complete darkness though. Cosy lights of different, soothing colours are set to gently nudge your brain to switch off and relax, while citrus and floral scents encourage you to calm down and forget the hassle of your daily life for at least one night.
Hästens' Sleep SPA, Coimbra, Portugal: For pure luxury shuteye
Staying at one of the 15 rooms of Hästens' Sleep SPA in Coimbra, Portugal, is certainly a luxury not everyone can afford, but the experience holds the secret to the perfect slumber.
Hästens is probably the most prestigious bedding brand in the world, whose beds are usually owned by A-list celebrities like Drake.
The boutique sleep-hotel in Portugal features Hästens's own 50,000 beds, which are designed to be the ultimate in comfort and make the price of a bedroom per night, around 500, sound almost cheap in comparison.
The Sleep SPA in Coimbra also offers customised pillows, in linen or satin, to provide the best sleeping experience, and Bed Talks focused on getting you the perfect support for your neck and head.
Mandarin Oriental, Geneva, Switzerland: For the medical sleeping clinic
At the Mandarin Oriental, located only a few steps away from the idyllic Lake Geneva, guests have the opportunity to put their sleeping fate in the hands of professionals.
The hotel has partnered up with experts at CENAS, Switzerland's first private medical sleeping clinic, to create a three-day programme. By studying your sleeping patterns, they help you to identify possible sleeping disorders and improve your resting habits.
Included in the package is an overnight polysomnographic test that will be analysed by the clinic's experts. If that's not enough for you, the spectacular Swiss landscape will do magic for your psychological well-being, even without the perfect night's sleep.
**Almar Jesolo Resort & Spa, Jesolo,**Italy: For sleep-inducing massages
With its Good Night Sleep programme, the Almar Jesolo Resort & Spa in Italy counts on robust massages to help people doze off at night.
With evocative names such as 'The rest of the warrior' and 'At the feet of Mount Olympus', the hotel's massages use traditional Chinese medicine to help you balance the energy flows of your body and head, or so they promise, and grant you a peaceful and restorative sleep.
Plus, before heading to bed you can sip one of their 'good night' infusion teas.
Marbella Club, Marbella, Spain: For a lifestyle revolution
There's nothing as soothing as the sound of waves crashing against the shore, so this beachfront hotel near Malaga, immersed in the stunning beauty of Andalusia, is already set up for a relaxing experience.
But the hotel is only for those who want a real lifestyle revolution.
The Marbella Club offers a sleep-enhancing programme that aims to change your sleeping habits for good. By introducing sleep-inducing rituals into your life - including essential oils and Tibetan singing bowls - it aims to provide the perfect diet for better sleep.
Add in a daily fitness programme and unlimited drinking water, and the hotel basically offers you a guide to living your healthiest life.
The Cadogan, London, UK: For sleephypnotherapy
If you have trouble falling asleep and you've tried everything, maybe it's time to give hypnotherapy a go.
This is the idea behind this London's hotel's 'Sleep Concierge', which offers guests a sleep-inducing meditation session with hypnotherapist and sleep expert Malminder Gill. There's also a pillow menu and a weighted blanket to cure insomnia, which affects a large majority of the UK population, according to research.
Those interested can also book a personalised, one-to-one session with Gill.
Equinox, New York, US: For an entire 'sleep system'
The Equinox hotel in New York has nailed down the science behind a good night's sleep, which according to them combines luxury bed linens and handmade mattresses designed to be naturally comfortable for our bodies.
The whole 'Sleep System' is based on the idea that our bodies know what's best for them when it comes to sleeping.
The temperature of the bed sheets are regulated to be comfortable in any season, and sound-blocking walls and blackout curtains guarantee that nothing comes between a customer and their sleep.
ITC Hotels, India: For bedtime TV
This hotel chain, scattered across India, features rooms with soundproof walls, blackout shades and motion-activated floor lighting to let you fall into a deep sleep and wake up rested and ready.
While it's a common sleep tip to cut down on screen time before bed, the ITC's hotels offer a special Sleep TV channel in their rooms with music designed to help you doze off. Also on offer is the option to customise everything in your room from your mattress to your pillows and duvet.
After a night at ITC's Sleep Boutique, the hotel chain promises to improve your mood and increase your alertness and productivity. Just in case you were starting to feel too relaxed.
Anantara Al Jabal Al Akhdar Resort, Nizwa, Oman: For a peaceful retreat
The Al Hajar mountains in Oman might seem a bit too far to go to obtain the perfect slumber, but the location of the Anantara Al Jabal Al Akhdar Resort, which stands on the rim of a massive canyon, is well worth the trip.
The hotel is an amazing retreat from the stress of city life and it's literally surrounded by stone walls to keep the world away.
As part of the sleeping experience offered by the resort, called Slumber Guru Package, guests can get in-bed foot massages and relax with baths infused with rose and frankincense scents.
Source: Euronews
: Hypnotherapy; Sleep; Resorts & spas; Tourism; Screen time; Hotels & motels
: : Resorts & spas Hotels & motels; : 72111 :‎ Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: Italy; Switzerland; Spain; New York; United States--US; India; United Kingdom--UK; Portugal; Oman; Lake Como
/: : Grand Hotel Tremezzo; NAICS: 721110
: 72111: Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: World: What is sleep tourism? The hotels offering pillow menus and a sleep concierge
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Mar 19, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2961245399
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Mar 19, 2024
: 2024-03-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
‘Sleep’ retreats leading the way to achieve good health
: Outdoor activity improves sleep From exercise and outdoor activity to stargazing trips to wellness programmes destinations are showing the way to adopt lifestyle changes to achieve restfulness and good sleep. This gains significance in March – a month dedicated to sleep awareness.
Chronic sleep issues are growing globally due to upended routines, more screen time and irregular physical activity, increased food and alcohol consumption, and dissolving boundaries between work and private life.
However, research shows that exercise and time outdoors improves sleep by reducing stress and producing feelings of calm.
Las Catalinas
Car-free Las Catalinas on Costa Rica’s Gold Coast is an outdoor paradise for hikers, trail runners, mountain bikers, yogis, kayakers, paddleboarders and water enthusiasts. Bordered by a tropical dry forest and the Pacific Ocean, Las Catalinas has taken cars out of the equation, encouraging guests and residents to spend more time outdoors on foot (or on bike).
It offers day-long opportunities for outdoor activity – making it easy to fall in step with the well-living ethos in town. An extensive network of 26 miles of world-class, single-track trails offers views of the stunning coastline and valleys, wildlife, while lending great spots for forest bathing and meditation.
The day concludes with a chance for a cold plunge the town’s wellness hub Center of Joy for an ice bath therapy that has been found to improve overall sleep quality.
This outdoor escapade to Las Catalinas provides a chance to stay at the boutique Santarena Hotel or one of the many flats or villas in the Las Catalinas Collection.
Also, Xterra Costa Rica brings its world-class, off-road triathlon to Las Catalinas from August 23-25, 2024.
Maharaja’s Palace Estate
A luxury, award-winning wellness retreat on a 100-acre Maharaja’s Palace Estate in the Himalayan foothills overlooking the spiritual river Ganga and Rishikesh valley, Ananda in the Himalayas offers a holistic ‘Sleep Enhancement Program’.
It utilises lifestyle modifications, dietary corrections, Ayurveda including Panchakarma and Shamana therapies, Yoga and Emotional Healing, Traditional Chinese Medicine including Acupuncture, Cupping and Moxibustion.
The programme aims to improve sleep quality, energy, and attention, remove associated memory difficulties, cognitive dysfunction, or fatigue.
A Stargazing Journey
Stargazing has been widely known to help with sleep issues. Exposure to natural light regulates Circadian rhythms and it’s an activity that can reduce daily screen time, promoting a more restful state.
Travel company Naya Traveler has designed a journey to see the stars throughout Latin America.
The Patagonian Steppe, a desert in Argentina, might be known for its dramatic landscapes and temperamental weather, yet on a cloudless winter night, visitors can watch the Milky Way ‘dance’ over the snow-capped peaks of the Andes and reflect on the icy glaciers.
Trek the Perito Moreno glacier by day and the other-worldly Southern constellations by night, guided by an astronomer who will unveil the mysteries that lie beyond our galaxy.
Naya Traveler designs tailor-made journeys to Argentina, besides Chile, Bolivia, and Peru.
Calabash Cove Resort and Spa
Studies have found that going plant-based can improve sleep and help alleviate insomnia. Plant-based diets are high in complex carbohydrates, including fibre and isoflavones which may help with quality sleep.
Plant-based foods can also be sources of tryptophan and melatonin, which are known to aid in good sleep hygiene and help regulate sleep.
As one of the few properties in Saint Lucia to offer a robust vegan menu and dedicated vegan dinner, Calabash Cove Resort and Spa offers vegan and vegetarian dishes with ingredients locally sourced from organic farms and fishermen.
The boutique 26-room, eco-conscious Caribbean resort also features Ti Spa where guests can indulge in an hour-long aromatherapy massage using essential oils derived from plants widely known for promoting relaxation and better sleep.
Each essential oil has healing properties and can also be used for inhalation during treatment. Essential oils such as lavender, ylang-ylang, chamomile and vetiver are excellent choices for someone suffering with insomnia. – TradeArabia News Service
: Insomnia; Exercise; Physical fitness; Sleep; Outdoor activities; Resorts & spas; Outdoors; Veganism; Screen time; Oils & fats; Vegetarianism
: : Resorts & spas; : 72111 :‎ Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: Costa Rica; Argentina
: 72111: Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: ‘Sleep’ retreats leading the way to achieve good health
: TradeArabia; Manama
: 2024
: Mar 16, 2024
: Disco Digital Media, Inc.
: Manama
/: United States, Manama
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2957843076
URL: 
: Copyright 2022 Al Hilal Publishing and Marketing Group Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).
: 2024-03-17
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
People Will Do Anything To Avoid Gray Hair --- Forget hair dye, some are going to great lengths to reduce or reverse those silvers
: Mosbergen, Dominique. 
: Gray hair? Nope. Not doing it, says Emily Cahill. Not at 30 years old.
"In my soul I feel 25. With the gray hair, it feels wrong," says Cahill, a health coach in Austin, Texas.
Though her soul is barely old enough to rent a car without a surcharge, Cahill's scalp started sprouting grays in her early 20s. She sees the silvery strands as a sign that something is amiss.
And she bristles at the notion of a lifetime of time-consuming and costly hair-coloring appointments.
So she's trying a different approach, joining the many people chasing remedies to try to banish grays in other ways -- and maybe stop them altogether.
Cahill has tried fo-ti, an herbal supplement used in traditional Chinese medicine for hair health, and the dietary supplement spermidine, which has delayed age-related diseases in mice. She meditates daily to manage the stress she suspects accelerates her graying, and she bought a red-light therapy helmet.
Sure, many people chose to ditch the dyes and rock their grays during the pandemic. Celebrities including Tan France and Jamie Lee Curtis wow with their silver locks.
Yet, one-third of U.S. adults said they would probably or definitely take a drug to prevent or reverse graying if such a medication were approved, according to an October YouGov poll of 9,000 people.
Some endorse gobbling black sesame seeds and blackstrap molasses to give gray hair the brush off. Others take liquid chlorophyll or douse their hair in onion juice. In Facebook and Reddit forums, posts about reversing grays can draw hundreds of replies.
Rosamaria La Posta, a 31-year-old singer-songwriter in Montreal, takes copper supplements that she suspects are fixing her grays. "I'm too young to be old," she says.
In Las Vegas, Navy veteran Natasha Johnson can commiserate. "It makes you look older and closer to death," says the 50-year-old. "It looks beautiful on a lot of women, just not on me."
Johnson swears by fo-ti, which in her estimation has significantly reversed her graying. "Even when I was deployed in Afghanistan, I took it." Her friends are skeptical. "I tell everybody to take it," she says.
"They don't believe it."
There is no proven way to stall or reverse graying, say dermatologists, who advise being careful about taking substances with unclear benefits and potentially adverse side effects. Taking too much fo-ti, for example, could cause liver damage.
Still, some researchers of aging say anti-gray warriors might be onto something.
Melissa Harris, a stem-cell and pigmentation biologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, is testing a compound that appears to reverse hair graying in mice. Her lab is also exploring how dormant stem cells could be harnessed to restart the "factories" in hair that produce pigment.
These factories contain specialized melanocyte cells that make the pigment melanin, and stem cells to replenish the melanocytes. When these cells malfunction with age, hair loses its color.
Smoking and stress can accelerate graying. A 2021 study found that people's gray hair recovered its color after periods of less stress.
Humans have been trying to chase away gray for millennia. Egyptians applied oil cooked with the blood of a black calf, according to the 3,500-year-old Ebers Papyrus. (Presumably, if it worked, we'd still be trying it).
Devin Feher, 37, has been experimenting for years with potentially life-extending strategies. It was going well, Feher says, until the grays began sprouting. "I started freaking out. I'm not slowing it down enough if I have gray hair," says Feher, a ride-hailing driver in West Palm Beach, Fla. "I stepped up my interventions a whole lot after that." Among the strategies rapamycin, an immunosuppressive drug that some researchers think could extend healthy lifespan. Feher thinks rapamycin has helped to slow graying. "It's doing something that you can notice."
Dr. Ralf Paus, a dermatologist at the University of Miami, is testing whether rapamycin and other compounds could reverse grays. Experiments have shown promising results, he says, and he thinks there soon will be proven ways to de-gray.
But rapamycin can cause side effects and shouldn't be used willy-nilly until more research confirms its safety and efficacy for reversing grays, according to doctors. "It's irresponsible to make yourself a guinea pig," says Paus.
Cahill, the health coach in Texas, says her hair is thicker and that some of her grays have regained color since she started her ministrations.
"Believing it's possible is the most important thing," she says.
Credit: By Dominique Mosbergen
: Dietary supplements; Stem cells; Hair
: Texas; United States--US
: People Will Do Anything To Avoid Gray Hair --- Forget hair dye, some are going to great lengths to reduce or reverse those silvers
: Mosbergen, Dominique
: Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.
: A.1
: 2024
: Mar 16, 2024
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance
ISSN: 00999660
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2957666763
URL: 
: Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-03-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Americans Will Do Anything to Avoid Gray Hair; Forget hair dye, people are going to great lengths to reduce or reverse the silvers. Some scientists of aging think they might be onto something.
: Mosbergen, Dominique. 
: Gray hair? Nope. Not doing it, says Emily Cahill. Not at 30 years old.
"In my soul I feel 25. With the gray hair, it feels wrong," says Cahill, a health coach in Austin, Texas.
Though her soul is barely old enough to rent a car without a surcharge, Cahill's scalp started sprouting grays in her early 20s. She sees the silvery strands as a sign that something is amiss. And she bristles at the notion of a lifetime of time-consuming and costly hair-coloring.
So she's trying a different approach, joining the many people chasing remedies to try to banish grays in other ways—and maybe stop them altogether.
Tan France
Cahill has tried fo-ti, an herbal supplement used in traditional Chinese medicine for hair health, and the dietary supplement spermidine, which has delayed age-related diseases in mice . She meditates daily to manage the stress she suspects accelerates her graying, and she bought a red-light therapy helmet .
Sure, many people chose to ditch the dyes and rock their grays during the pandemic. Celebrities including Tan France and Jamie Lee Curtis wow with their silver locks.
Yet, one-third of U.S. adults said they would probably or definitely take a drug to prevent or reverse graying if such a medication were approved, according to an October YouGov poll of 9,000 people.
Some endorse gobbling black sesame seeds and blackstrap molasses to give gray hair the brush off. Others take liquid chlorophyll or douse their hair in onion juice. In Facebook and Reddit forums, posts about reversing grays can draw hundreds of replies.
Rosamaria La Posta, a 31-year-old singer-songwriter in Montreal, takes copper supplements that she suspects are fixing her grays. "I'm too young to be old," she says.
In Las Vegas, Navy veteran Natasha Johnson can commiserate.
"It makes you look older and closer to death," says the 50-year-old. "It looks beautiful on a lot of women, just not on me."
Johnson swears by fo-ti, which in her estimation has significantly reversed her graying. "Even when I was deployed in Afghanistan, I took it."
Her friends are skeptical. "I tell everybody to take it," she says. "They don't believe it."
It's a gray area
There is no proven way to stall or reverse graying, say dermatologists, who advise being careful about taking substances with unclear benefits and potentially adverse side effects. Taking too much fo-ti, for example, could cause liver damage .
Still, some researchers of aging say anti-gray warriors might be onto something.
Melissa Harris, a stem-cell and pigmentation biologist at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, is testing a compound that appears to reverse hair graying in mice. Her lab is also exploring how dormant stem cells could be harnessed to restart the "factories" in hair that produce pigment.
These factories contain specialized melanocyte cells that make the pigment melanin, and stem cells to replenish the melanocytes. When these cells malfunction with age, hair loses its color. "It's pretty inevitable," Harris says.
Smoking and stress can accelerate graying . A 2021 study found that people's gray hair recovered its color after periods of less stress. "One participant reversed their hair graying after a two-week vacation," says co-author and neuroscience researcher Ayelet Rosenberg, who was a research assistant at Columbia University at the time of the study.
Caucasians tend to start graying in their mid-30s, while people of Asian and African ancestry typically do so in their late-30s and mid-40s, respectively, says Dr. Delila Foulad, a dermatologist at UCLA Health.
Graying much earlier could signal an underlying medical problem or nutritional deficiency. But for most people, it is a normal process that doesn't need fixing, says Dr. Jenna Lester, a dermatologist at the University of California, San Francisco. "We frame a lot of things as problems that aren't," she adds.
Still, humans have been trying to chase away gray for millennia. Clay tablets from the Assyrian Empire dated to the 7th Century B.C. mention using the gall of a black ox, cypress oil, licorice and honey to turn gray hair black. Ancient Egyptians applied oil cooked with the blood of a black calf, according to the 3,500-year-old Ebers Papyrus . (Presumably, if it worked, we'd still be trying it).
Tech entrepreneur Bryan Johnson, who is spending millions experimenting on himself to slow aging , posted a YouTube video last month, detailing his regimen to reverse hair loss and graying ; the video has nearly 700,000 views.
Johnson, 46, uses two topical treatments. One contains an herbal extract that, Johnson acknowledges, has colored his hair. But he says something is reversing his grays. When he has looked closely at plucked hairs, he says color has returned to some of them.
What is working? He isn't sure. Johnson's routine also includes more than 50 supplements daily and trips to a Honduran island for $25,000 gene-therapy injections.
Jon Vlachogiannis, a 42-year-old tech investor and self-professed biohacker in Los Angeles, purchased one of the topical treatments Johnson recommended.
"People are touting this as the best thing since sliced bread," he says. "I wanted to see what happens if you actually try it out."
Vlachogiannis applied the treatment to his scalp every day for a week and didn't wash his hair, as instructed. His hair got darker. He thought it was working. But then he shampooed his hair.
"The color hadn't changed," he says. "It was the oil from my hair."
Devin Feher, 37, has been experimenting for years with potentially life-extending strategies. It was going well, Feher says, until the grays began sprouting.
"I started freaking out. I'm not slowing it down enough if I have gray hair," says Feher, a ride-hailing driver in West Palm Beach, Fla. "I stepped up my interventions a whole lot after that."
Among the strategies is taking 60 pills a day, including rapamycin, an immunosuppressive drug that some researchers think could extend healthy lifespan . Feher thinks rapamycin has helped to slow graying. "It's doing something that you can notice."
Dr. Ralf Paus, a dermatologist at the University of Miami, is testing whether rapamycin and other compounds could reverse gray hairs. Lab experiments have shown promising results, he says, and he thinks there soon will be proven ways to de-gray.
But rapamycin can cause side effects including increasing the risk of infections and shouldn't be used willy-nilly until more research confirms its safety and efficacy for reversing grays, according to doctors. "It's irresponsible to make yourself a guinea pig," says Paus.
Cahill, the health coach in Texas, says her hair is thicker and that some of her grays have regained color since she started her ministrations. "Believing it's possible is the most important thing," she says.
Write to Dominique Mosbergen at dominique.mosbergen@wsj.com
Credit: By Dominique Mosbergen
: Dietary supplements; Stem cells; Aging
: Texas; United States--US; France
: Americans Will Do Anything to Avoid Gray Hair; Forget hair dye, people are going to great lengths to reduce or reverse the silvers. Some scientists of aging think they might be onto something.
: Mosbergen, Dominique
: Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
: 2024
: Mar 15, 2024
: A-hed
: Page One
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics
e-ISSN: 25749579
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2957144409
URL: 
: Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-04-04
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Vietnam: Vietnamese, Chinese localities intensify border health cooperation
: A talk exchanging information on disease prevention and control, and healthcare activities between delegations of the Department of Health of Vietnam's Cao Bng province and the Health Commission of China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region was organised in Cao Bng city on March 5.
According to Nông Tun Phong, Director of the Department of Health of Cao Bng, the talk aimed to further promote the comprehensive implementation of the joint statement on continuing to deepen and elevate the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between Vietnam and China, and important common perceptions reached by the two countries' leaders.
Both sides were committed to implementing the outcomes reached at the 2024 spring meeting between secretaries of the Party committees, the 15th meeting of the Joint Working Committee of, and the medical exchange conference of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region and the four Vietnamese provinces of Hà Giang, Quang Ninh, Lng Sõn and Cao Bng in 2023; and a memorandum of understanding (MOU) on medical cooperation between the four Vietnamese border provinces and Guangxi.
In 2023, the Cao Bng Department of Health and the Health Commission of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region engaged in numerous friendly exchange activities and cooperation in health care. The two sides stepped up information sharing and coordination in preventing and controlling infectious diseases such as the COVID-19 pandemic, plague, and monkeypox, especially cross-border infectious diseases.
The two sides also enhanced coordination and control for disease-carrying intermediate hosts at land border checkpoints between the two countries; managed health quarantine for humans, vehicles crossing the border, exported and imported goods, medical microbiological samples, biological products, human tissues and organs transported through pairs of land border gates between the two countries.
Du Zhenzong, Head of the Health Commission of the Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, said the two sides have collaborated effectively, especially in preventing and controlling infectious diseases, minimising the risks of cross-border infectious diseases, and deepening the relationship between the people of Vietnam and China.
He expressed his hope that the two sides will continue to maintain their relationship, information exchanges, and boost cooperation to reduce the spread of diseases that can be transmitted across the border.
The official hoped to cooperate with the Department of Health of Cao Bng in personnel training, especially in providing further training and technical skills for medical officials and health care givers.
He suggested the two sides discuss developing specific plans for improving the quality of medical examination and treatment, public health, treatment techniques, and traditional medicine and strengthening cooperation in treating cross-border infectious diseases.
Quangxi welcomes Vietnamese citizens to experience its advanced healthcare services and will create the most favourable conditions for these tourists, Du affirmed.
The two sides' medical agencies are considering establishing and implementing win-win cooperation mechanisms and partnerships between Cao Bng and Guangxi, tapping their resources and harnessing potential to bring a brighter future to the health sector of the two countries.
Additionally, they can conduct emergency response drills, share information on infectious diseases, and traditional medicine, especially in preventing and treating Mediterranean anemia; and agree on a collaborative model to ensure patients receive the best possible healthcare services available today. - VNS
: Infectious diseases; Cooperation; Health care
: China; Vietnam
: Vietnam: Vietnamese, Chinese localities intensify border health cooperation
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Mar 12, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2954917353
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Mar 12, 2024
: 2024-03-11
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Sea cucumber ‘nurseries’ could protect coral reefs
: Caruana, Claudia. 
: Deron Burkepile, professor of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, tellsSciDev.Net: “When we think about how humans impact the oceans via overharvesting we typically think about the big charismatic organisms like sharks, grouper, and parrotfishes … Robert Steneck, professor emeritus of Oceanography, Marine Biology and Marine Policy at the School of Marine Sciences, University of Maine, US, tells SciDev.Net says the study showed with “rigorous experiments” that sea cucumbers may play a critical role by controlling coral pathogens as they feed on coral reef-associated sediments. According to Steneck, it is “too soon to say how widely applicable the findings of this study are to coral reef ecosystems throughout the tropics, but it is certainly a new and exciting discovery.”
: Speed read
- Sea cucumbers function as reef vacuum cleaners but have been overharvested
- Cultivating them in nurseries could help restore their services to corals, researchers say
- Coral reefs play vital role in biodiversity, food security, tourism
[NEW YORK] Growing sea cucumbers in underwater nurseries could be a way of restoring their services as “vacuum cleaners” of the ocean to protect the Asia-Pacific’s declining coral reefs, marine ecologists suggest.
Coral reefs play a crucial role in the region’s biodiversity, food security, employment, tourism, and medical research, but many reefs are suffering degradation due to pollution, ocean warming and overfishing.
Now, a team of researchers from the US has discovered that the overharvesting of sea cucumbers may also be contributing to the reefs’ demise.
“There is no way for managers and policymakers to protect coral reefs from bleaching because of acute warming, so this research suggests a new way to protect coral reefs by protecting sea cucumbers associated with coral reefs.”
Robert Steneck, professor emeritus of Oceanography, Marine Biology and Marine Policy at the School of Marine Sciences, University of Maine, US.
Sea cucumbers are marine invertebrates which have for centuries been found on the ocean floor and feed on microalgae, bacteria and detritus or bits of dead organisms.
In some Asian countries, they are considered a delicacy that can be pickled, fried or eaten raw. They also are used in traditional Chinese medicine, and medical researchers now are looking at their use for diabetes drugs and anti-cancer properties.
[Image omitted: See PDF][Image omitted: See PDF][Image omitted: See PDF]
Sea cucumbers feeding next to corals. Photo courtesy of Dr. Cody Clements, School of Biological Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology.
Co-author Mark Hay, a marine ecologist at the Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, told SciDev.Net : “Humans have overharvested these detritivores, resulting in a removal of the janitors of the reef and this is causing increases in coral diseases.
“Coral disease is one of the major drivers of coral loss in some areas and it interacts with warming seas often stimulating microbial growth. The heat, plus the microbial growth buildup may increase coral losses to disease.”
Hay says this removal of “vacuum cleaners” from the reef has now been coupled with pollution and rising water temperatures from global warming.
Co-investigator Cody Clements, a fellow researcher at the university, explained: “That ecological fuse we lit long ago has finally reached the explosives of a dirtier and warmer fish tank earth because the sea is not there to help us clean up.”
[Image omitted: See PDF][Image omitted: See PDF][Image omitted: See PDF]
A drone photo of the reef with sea cucumbers present on the sand. Photo courtesy of Dr. Cody Clements, School of Biological Sciences, Georgia Institute of Technology.
The researchers believe it would be useful to start sea cucumber nurseries in affected areas.
“We are hopeful of stimulating such actions by conservation groups, fisheries managers in countries where reefs are declining or at risk,” Hay added, pointing out that this applies to “almost all countries with coral reefs.”
The pair’s study, published in Nature Communications , was replicated in two locations: Moorea, French Polynesia, a small island within sight of Tahiti, and the American protected Palmyra Atoll, also in the Pacific Ocean.
In each location, using different sea cucumber and different coral species, they excluded or included sea cucumbers and monitored the frequency and severity of coral diseases in these plots.
The researchers noted that the corals they planted got infected and died in areas where there were few or no sea cucumbers. However, this did not occur in areas with more sea cucumbers.
“This provided us an opportunity to test their functions in a natural setting,” Hay explained.
“We then repeated parts of the same experiment in a different reef system Palmyra Atoll using different sea cucumbers and coral species and found similar results.”
Hay says the findings demonstrate the importance of a missing trophic link on modern reefs.
Deron Burkepile, professor of Ecology, Evolution, and Marine Biology at the University of California, Santa Barbara, tells SciDev.Net : “When we think about how humans impact the oceans via overharvesting we typically think about the big charismatic organisms like sharks, grouper, and parrotfishes … Most of us overlook sea cucumbers, even though they act as the reefs’ vacuum cleaners.”
He notes that the corals used in the study create lots of homes for other organisms, “so, the sea cucumbers could dramatically influence the presence of a host of coral reef biodiversity”.
Robert Steneck, professor emeritus of Oceanography, Marine Biology and Marine Policy at the School of Marine Sciences, University of Maine, US, tells SciDev.Net says the study showed with “rigorous experiments” that sea cucumbers may play a critical role by controlling coral pathogens as they feed on coral reef-associated sediments.
“This is especially critical because coral disease is one of the greatest threats to reef corals,” he said.
[Image omitted: See PDF][Image omitted: See PDF][Image omitted: See PDF]
Researcher diving in the Palmyra Atoll. Photo courtesy of Dr. Cody Clements, Research Scientist, School of Biological Sciences Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta
“There is no way for managers and policymakers to protect coral reefs from bleaching because of acute warming, so this research suggests a new way to protect coral reefs by protecting sea cucumbers associated with coral reefs.”
According to Steneck, it is “too soon to say how widely applicable the findings of this study are to coral reef ecosystems throughout the tropics, but it is certainly a new and exciting discovery.”
Margaret Miller, research director of the NGO SECORE International, said: “We struggle with the presence of sand sediments on reef surfaces that impair coral settlement and recruitment.
“This study suggests that sea cucumbers, which may have been functionally removed from our reefs via overharvest, could be an ally in removing and disinfecting these reef sediments to aid coral recruitment. Culturing them might be a next step.”
This piece was produced by SciDev.Net’s Asia & Pacific desk.
: Oceanography; Food security; Oceans; Coral reefs; Marine biology; Disease; Marine ecology; Biodiversity; Anniversaries; Tropical environments; Sediments; Tourism; Ecology; Vacuum cleaners; Coral reef ecosystems; Medical research; Marine sciences; Biology
: : Food security
: Palmyra Atoll; Georgia; Asia; Atlanta Georgia; United States--US
/: : Georgia Institute of Technology; NAICS: 611310; : University of Maine; NAICS: 611310
: Sea cucumber ‘nurseries’ could protect coral reefs
: Caruana, Claudia
: SciDev.net - Environment; Oxford
: 2024
: Mar 11, 2024
: News
: Oxford
/: Oxford
: Environmental Studies, Journalism
: English
: Journal Article
: 
: 2024-03-15 (Modified)
ProQuest  ID: 3020673636
URL: 
: © 2024. This work is published under  (the “License”). Notwithstanding the ProQuest Terms and Conditions, you may use this content in accordance with the terms of the License.
: 2024-10-03
: Publicly Available Content Database
____________________________________________________________
Ben Greenfield lends heft to Mukesh Bansal's biohacking venture [Tech & Internet]
: Saha, Soumyajit; Roy, Supriya. 
: Ben Greenfield, well-known fitness consultant, 'biohacker' and triathlon runner, whose list of high-profile clients includes Twitter cofounder Jack Dorsey, is consulting with serial entrepreneur Mukesh Bansal to help him set up a chain of biohacking centres across the country.
These centres, which employ popular practices of biohacking and age reversal, will provide various therapies and consultations, among other services.
Bansal, who has previously cofounded online fashion and apparel major Myntra and fitness startup Cult.fit, told ET that he is looking to set up a maximum of two centres each in New Delhi, Bengaluru and Mumbai, given the cost-restrictive and time-intensive nature of biohacking.
"I am not looking for external funding for this at the moment ... it's almost a passion project that I want to work on," he added.
Greenfield, for his part, is slowly finding his feet in India. "In the US, I love to work with celebrities, actors and other people that have influence. I would love to do that in India, but it's only my second trip here. I'm slowly making connections and would love to be the go-to-person on biohacking," he said.
A new import
Biohacking is a do-it-yourself practice of closely monitoring the body to develop tailor-made plans to enhance physical or mental performance. It draws from fields like biology, genetics, neuroscience and nutrition and is often employed as a de-aging tactic.
Greenfield first got interested in the traditional practices employed in biohacking after his disenchantment with the medical world.
Having taken up a pre-medical curriculum and sitting for the medical college admission test, his candidature was accepted at six different medical schools. However, he soon found that modern medicine and its practices were not to his liking.
"After interning and working in a variety of medical clinics and hospitals, I realised that modern medicine was not what I thought it would be and it seemed dysfunctional in terms of not really focusing on all the things I knew of exercise and eating healthy and being outdoors and instead was just kind of pill-popping and surgeries," he said.
Giving up the idea of becoming a doctor, Greenfield went on to set up a series of personal training gyms and clinics in the US.
But his advocacy has not been without controversy. In 2019, he drew wide outrage after tweeting that vaccines were connected to autism.
In 2022, after the Covid pandemic had been reined in by the widespread use of vaccines, Greenfield tried to temper his argument.
"Seems the vaccine debate is a bit like the 'red meat' or 'eggs' debate. Folks lump them all into the same category when there are very different MOAs (mechanisms of action) for, say, Novavax vs. J&J vs. Moderna. Sometimes I think people should do more research before saying all vaccines are good/bad," he tweeted.
Convergence of ideas
Greenfield said he realised he loved the idea of how eating healthy helped him run up the hills in his backyard at a very young age. Over the years, these memories helped him connect better while interviewing traditional Chinese and Ayurvedic medicine practitioners on his podcast, which has been running for 15 years.
Greenfield has added other practices like red light therapy and cryotherapy chamber sessions into his biohacking practice. A lot of these technologies, Greenfield believes, mimic what nature already offers, but are increasingly difficult to find in a post-industrial era dominated by urban settings.
The idea now, he says, is to incorporate many traditional ideas in his entry into India. That might be harder than running a triathlon, but with Greenfield on board, biohacking could soon be the next big thing on the Indian fitness scene.
: Triathlon; Vaccines; Joint ventures
: : Joint ventures
: United States--US; India
: Bansal, Mukesh; Greenfield, Ben
: Ben Greenfield lends heft to Mukesh Bansal's biohacking venture [Tech & Internet ]
: Saha, Soumyajit; Roy, Supriya
: The Economic Times; New Delhi
: 2024
: Mar 5, 2024
: Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--India
ISSN: 09718680
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2937173468
URL: 
: Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Mar 5, 2024
: 2024-03-06
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Ageing heirs control family enterprises
: Wee Wei Ling, 1951
Net worth: US$800 million
Wee Cho Yaw's eldest child holds a management role at the family's Pan Pacific Hotels Group, one of Asia's top chains overseeing more than 50 hotels, resorts and serviced apartments.
She's responsible for the sustainability strategy as well as the asset management of the hotels. Wee also founded and manages the group's St Gregory spas and Si Chuan Dou Hua restaurants.
Wee Ee Cheong, 1953
Net worth: US$4.5 billion
Ee Cheong is Cho Yaw's eldest son and CEO of the flagship United Overseas Bank, making him the most public-facing executive in the empire. A career banker, he joined the lender in 1979 and became its CEO 17 years ago. He has also held directorships in other key companies of the family. A keen art enthusiast, he is the patron of the Nanyang Academy of Fine Arts, and has a masters in applied economics from American University in Washington. He is married and has three children.
Wee Ee Chao, 1955
Net worth: US$2.4 billion
He's the chairman and managing director of brokerage firm UOB-Kay Hian Holdings. While leading the stockbroking arm of UOB, Ee Chao is also CEO of luxury property firm Kheng Leong and a director of UOL Group, which oversees Pan Pacific.
He chaired the Singapore Tourism Board from 2002 to 2004 and spearheaded the organisation's efforts to minimise the impact of the Sars crisis in 2003. He was appointed chairman of healthcare company Haw Par, replacing his late father, on Feb 26.
Wee Ee Lim, 1961
Net Worth: US$3.9 billion
Ee Lim is the president and CEO of Haw Par. He joined the company in 1986 and has held the current position since 2003. Last year, he became chair of UOL subsidiary Singapore Land Group, and was appointed UOL's chairman on Feb 27, succeeding his late father.
Wee Wei Chi, unknown
Net worth: US$800 million
She's been serving as director of Kheng Leong since 1981. Unlike her siblings, she does not hold other positions in the family's businesses. She's married to David Eu from the family that founded Eu Yan Sang, a company specialising in traditional Chinese medicine.
: Resorts & spas; Equity; Hotels & motels
: : Resorts & spas Equity Hotels & motels; : 72111 :‎ Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: United States--US; Singapore
: 72111: Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: Ageing heirs control family enterprises
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Mar 4, 2024
: COMPANIES & MARKETS
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2934182092
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-03-04
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
​Langham Hospitality Group makes a splash at Xiamen Seaworld
: Xiamen Seaworld Langham Hospitality Group (LHG) has, for the first time, signed management agreements for three hotels on a single plot. The newly built properties are part of Xiamen Seaworld, China Merchants Group’s (CMG’s) mixed-use development perched on the western shore of Xiamen’s main island.
The hotels, which opens in 2025, will each showcase a different brand from LHG’s portfolio.
The selected brands include, The Langham Hotels & Resorts, LHG’s flagship mark which caters to the Luxury segment, as well as Cordis Hotels & Resorts, and Ying’nFlo, which serve the Upscale and Midscale Select Service segments respectively.
The properties will join the group’s existing hotel in Xiamen, the Langham Place, and take the total number of LHG hotels in China to 20.
“We are delighted to see such strong interest in our brands, which is a testament to our success in elevating them to capitalise on the recovery in China’s hospitality sector,” LHG Chief Executive Officer Bob van den Oord said.
“The Langham, Cordis and Ying’nFlo will serve as iconic additions to Xiamen Seaworld, a visionary complex that we are proud to be part of. They will also bolster our presence in a wonderfully vibrant city that continues to show great promise. ”
Xiamen Seaworld is CMG’s first Seaworld complex to be built outside of Shenzhen and is the product of epic construction efforts – the result of which is a carefully cultivated plot that serves as the perfect symbol of the historic partnership between the state-owned developer and international hotel operator.
The plot sits in a well-situated part of Dongdu Free Trade Zone that affords the two towers to house the hotels with unobstructed ocean views and expansive vistas of nearby Huweishan Park.
At The Langham, Xiamen will occupy the larger of the towers that offer spectacular view from the point of check-in courtesy of a sumptuous sky lobby that occupies the hotel’s top floor.
The Langham’s Grand Ballroom will measure 880 sqm, and set to be one of the largest private facilities of its kind in the city. The expansive hall will be located within close reach of meeting rooms, which will cover a total area of 1,200 sqm.
The hotel’s culinary outlets include a branch of the famous Palm Court, the original iteration of which has been serving afternoon tea at The Langham, London for 150 years now.
The Langham will have its very own T’ang Court, an offshoot of The Langham, Hong Kong’s restaurant of 3-Star Michelin acclaim.
The Langham, Xiamen will also house an expansive branch of LHG’s iconic Traditional Chinese Medicine-informed wellness hub, Chuan Spa, where patrons can access the platform’s full suite of signature treatments. Those staying at the hotel can enjoy additional access to various Chuan Wellness in-room offerings, such as its Sleep Matters Turndown Kits.
In-room wellness offerings will also be available at the Cordis, Xiamen, Seaworld, which will be located in the second of the two towers. And in other perk parallel, Cordis guests will have access to The Langham’s ballroom and meeting and event facilities, while guests from The Langham will benefit from a reciprocal arrangement that permits use of the Cordis’s 543 square metre ballroom and 755 sqm of meeting facilities.
Also, on the topic of shared spaces, the second tower will additionally house LHG’s first mainland China branch of Ying’nFlo, its latest hotel brand which caters to the young and young at heart. This includes adaptable furniture and top digital technology features.
The property also features its signature House of Ying’nFlo open space, which will be the largest of its kind. – TradeArabia News Service
: Hotels & motels
: : Hotels & motels; : 72111 :‎ Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: China
/: : Langham Hospitality Group; NAICS: 721110
: 72111: Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
: ​Langham Hospitality Group makes a splash at Xiamen Seaworld
: TradeArabia; Manama
: 2024
: Feb 21, 2024
: Disco Digital Media, Inc.
: Manama
/: United States, Manama
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2928879771
URL:  /2928879771/se-2?accountid=45062
: Copyright 2022 Al Hilal Publishing and Marketing Group Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).
: 2024-02-21
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
World: How to survive Arctic frosts, to dip into ice water. Tips by students from hot climate Tips by students from hot climate
: The number of foreign students coming to Yakutsk's North-Eastern Federal University (NEFU) has been growing. The young people are not afraid of an unfamiliar country or of staying in Yakutia's capital that is built on permafrost. The city is known as one of the coldest places in the world, where winters continue for almost six months, where the air temperature drops below minus 60 degrees. We have discussed with foreign students how they live, study and work in the city of frosts and fogs.
From hot Egypt into minus 40 degrees
Five years ago, Shadi Elamrussi from Egypt came to Yakutsk to study medicine. He remembered how frustrating it was to take the first step out of the plane into the thick blanket of white fog that covered the airport. The first week was the hardest, he added. However, the language barrier turned out to be yet a bigger problem than the frosts: the Egyptian had come to Yakutsk to take an English-language program without taking a prior preparatory course, and it was real tough to do without knowing Russian. "I can remember funny episodes: imagine - I am asking for a pillow, but use a different word, which sounds very alike, and the hostel's staff was shocked to hear I was asking for a granny," the student laughed.
He started working as a cook in a small bar to improve skills in Russian. It was not easy to work and study, but as the time was moving on, he found a job of an English teacher. The schedule fit him well.
"Sure, for those coming from southern countries, the biggest thing is to get used to the frosts. We all want to learn the language, the city and culture, but at the same time it is important to mind the safety and not to stay outdoors for too long in severe frosts," he said.
His tip for first-year students from tropical countries is not to work in the first year: it is much more important to get adapted. Other important aspects are to undergo a medical examination, to monitor the health and to buy warm clothes: a thick down jacket, a sweater, and insulated pants. "When it is minus 40-50 degrees in Yakutsk, only open parts get frozen - the face, hands, if without gloves, or legs, if you have to be standing for a long time. In addition to covering heads, many locals cover their faces - not to have icy eyelashes," he told us.
Medical scientists share this opinion. Natalya Borisova of the University's Medical Institute stressed during the first year, foreign students undergo both social and biological adaptations. The institute's researchers have selected a group of students from Egypt, China, Pakistan and Afghanistan to see how the extremely low temperatures may affect health conditions of the foreigners visiting Yakutia. The scientists observe the students during the most acute phase of adaptation - the first couple of months after their arrival. The research will continue for several years.
"Adaptive reactions have developed over the evolution. For some, those reactions proceed without disruptions, since the body has huge compensatory and adaptive mechanisms, while others may experience certain disruptions. Our task is to identify the first signs of such a breakdown, to understand how, why and in what cases they may occur. If the body is healthy initially, then moving to other climatic conditions, including those with a cold climate, cannot cause a direct threat to life," the scientist said.
Dipping in ice water on Epiphany Day
Shadi enjoys traveling around Yakutia. The biggest impression has been from a dog sledding tour near Yakutsk. "The travel agency gave me a wolf fur coat, a fur hat, padded trousers, and I was not cold. These are traditional clothes, nobody would wear them in the city," he explained.
Shadi has volunteered to go to Yakutia's Megino-Kangalassky District to give lessons in first aid skills to local kids. There, with other volunteers, he was taking free HIV tests. Shadi runs the NEFU International Student Club. The club invites foreign students to winter and summer trips, to exhibitions and fairs - to help them get adapted to life away from their homeland.
The student does not regret he has chosen Yakutsk. He has got many friends, interesting studies and a job. He even has started learning the Yakut language. He admitted that he had got used to frosts and was no longer afraid of minus 40 degrees. On the Epiphany Day eve, he even dipped into ice water. "It wasn't cold at all," he smiled.
The young man plans to stay in Yakutsk after a post-graduate course - to work as a doctor. He is not sure yet about the direction, but anyway the dreams are to become either a cardiac surgeon or an ophthalmologist. He continues learning Russian. Another dream is to have his father, a trauma surgeon in Alexandria, see Yakutia.
"The locals were very surprised"
N'watango Conde from the Republic of Guinea is a fourth-year student at the University's Motor Transport Department. He had taken a preparatory course. The young man has come to Yakutia under an intergovernmental agreement on training between the Russian Federation and the Republic of Guinea. "I was shown a list of universities. From that list, I have chosen the North-Eastern Federal University in Yakutsk, the coldest city in the world," he said.
It was for the first time that he saw snow - in Yakutia, in October, 2019. "It was minus 10 degrees then. The first winter was difficult: I had only a thin jacket and sneakers. In December, I had to buy winter clothes and shoes suitable for the Yakut winter. In a sense, I was lucky - the coronavirus started, and we switched to distance learning, so in 50-degree frosts I was locked down at a hostel. On the other hand, in the isolation and with the fear to get sick, I lacked communication and at times even thought of returning home. But as the restrictions were lifted, I began to get used to the city and to my studies," he added.
In the second winter, he knew Russian and the city much better. In extreme frosts, he used an app to track buses. "I went outdoors only when the bus was approaching the stop," he said.
A future road engineer from West Africa is the only representative of his country in Yakutia. Over the years at the university, he has not been home - too expensive. In Yakutsk, the young man studies and additionally - gives lessons of French to children at the International Arctic School.
Students from Africa help each other, he continued. "We get together for New Year celebrations, we help each other. In Yakutsk, I've met students from Cameroon, Congo, Somalia, Mozambique, Zimbabwe, Uganda, Zambia and other African countries," he added.
What he lacks in Yakutsk is the usual fruits and vegetables. "First of all, everything is top expensive. For example, I was shocked to see prices of bananas, mangoes, pineapples. At home, we may take them for free. Avocados are very expensive. Secondly, many items are not available. Every time that I visit Moscow, I go to the African Market in Tyoply Stan (a district in south-west Moscow - TASS) to buy okra, bananas for frying, fonio seeds (rich in calcium - TASS), peanut butter," he said.
Every summer, he joins practical courses. One year, his group went for two months to the remote Oymyakon District in Yakutia's east. "The locals were very surprised - they must have seen a black man for the first time. There were very many mosquitoes, but I liked it there quite a lot," the student said.
City of Northern Lights
Zhang Xiaohong, a graduate student from China, was born and grew up in Harbin, the country's northernmost province. "Now that it's 40 degrees below zero in Yakutia, it's minus 13 in my hometown. In China, we do not wear hats in winter - but it's impossible in Yakutsk," she said.
She came to Yakutia in 2017, studied Russian for a year and then joined the graduate school. "It was, of course, difficult. I didn't know Russian well - when shopping I used Google Translate. But later on, I got adapted and, in addition to the postgraduate studies, I worked at the University's Department of International Relations, taught Chinese at the Institute of Foreign Philology and Regional Studies. I am grateful to all my colleagues and teachers for their support, especially to Lyudmila Pestryakova, running the laboratory for the Arctic ecology studies. If it weren't for my colleagues and their patience, I wouldn't have overcome the language barrier," she said.
The student had chosen Yakutsk due to her studies in hydrology and permafrost. "Yakutsk is one of the global centers for permafrost studies. China's permafrost is mostly seasonal, while this city has been built on permafrost," she explained. Xiaohong is finalizing the thesis on dendrochronology - a science about methods to date events, natural phenomena, based on analyzing annual rings of wood. She has collected more than 400 tree samples in the Lena River's middle and lower reaches.
Her tip to foreign students is to buy clothes in Yakutsk. "For example, in China it is not easy to buy clothes for 50-degree frosts. First of all, you need a good down jacket with a warm hood with a fur edge. Unfortunately, I could not afford buying unty boots (traditional boots made of reindeer skin - TASS), which cost more than 20,000 rubles ($223). In frosts, always wear a scarf and a snood, to protect the face from frostbites. Cover the face up to the eyes," she said.
"Yakutsk is a truly good city, but you need to be mentally prepared before coming here: winter continues for almost six months, and thus the time for activities and for being outdoors is short. But this does not mean you should not travel to Yakutsk. Right now, I am no longer afraid of frosts and, in addition to work and studies, I enjoy jogging in a gym," she added.
The lowest air temperature Xiaohong witnessed was in January last year (2023) - it was minus 54 degrees in Yakutsk. "To me, it does not really matter whether it is minus 48, 49, 53 or 54 degrees - the feelings are similar," she said. "Simply put on warmer clothes."
Source: Russian News Agency
: Cold; Foreign students; Permafrost; Distance learning; Ice; International relations; Chinese languages
: : International relations
: China; Arctic region; Egypt
: World: How to survive Arctic frosts, to dip into ice water. Tips by students from hot climate Tips by students from hot climate
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Jan 31, 2024
: Business News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2920558507
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jan 31, 2024
: 2024-07-15
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
REVIEW --- Can the U.S. Find Allies To Help in Gaza? --- America's traditional partners in the Middle East are skeptical of the Biden administration's plan to rebuild the Gaza Strip by putting the Palestinian Authority in charge.
: Cook, Steven A. 
: The Biden administration's so-called "day after" plan for the Gaza Strip has not been going well, especially in eliciting support from America's partners in the Middle East.
Not long before Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in the Turkish capital in early January to discuss the war in Gaza, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan declared that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu "is richer than Hitler" and gets "all sorts of support" from the U.S. The Turkish leader has a long history of blood-curdling rhetoric that links Israelis with Nazis and has long supported Hamas in word and deed. Still, after his meetings in Turkey, Blinken told reporters that "it's clear that Turkey is prepared to play a positive, productive role in the work that needs to happen the day after the conflict ends."
Nor did the Secretary of State fare well through the rest of his trip, returning home with very little to show for his efforts. Indeed, if Blinken's recent tour of the Middle East revealed anything, it is that America's regional partners are deeply reluctant to help with President Joe Biden's diplomatic push to "reinvigorate" the Palestinian Authority (PA), extend its rule to the Gaza Strip and cajole the Israelis and Palestinians to resume long-suspended negotiations to end their conflict. Even the plan to end the war announced by the Arab states last weekend is little more than a warmed-over peace initiative that has been rattling around since 2002. Still, even though it is tempting to write off America's regional partners as timorous, weak and skeptical, much of the problem lies with Washington.
The Biden administration would have a better chance of securing help from friends in the region if it was not so passive. It is not that the leaders of Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and Bahrain are opposed to Biden's effort to revive the PA and the two-state solution. But no one is going to lend a hand to the U.S. unless Washington takes decisive action to reform the PA, confront Iran's "axis of resistance" and isolate the region's arsonists, notably Qatar and Turkey.
The region's key players are hemmed between domestic political support for the Palestinians and their strategic ties with the U.S. The Jordanians, who have long and deep ties to the U.S., have done nothing except issue increasingly strident condemnations of Israel from Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi and Queen Rania. No doubt this is a function of the political pressure in a country where a majority of citizens, including the queen, are of Palestinian origin.
In Egypt, President Abdel Fatah Al Sisi is surely aware that any number of groups that were involved in instigating the 2011 uprising against President Hosni Mubarak originated in Palestinian solidarity committees that sprung up during the second intifada in the early 2000s. He has thus been cautious about working with the Biden administration, which many Egyptian activists charge with facilitating a "genocide" in Gaza. Still, Egypt has been more active than Jordan. Cairo has helped win the release of Israeli hostages and is the only pipeline for whatever aid is getting to the people of Gaza.
Then there are the Saudis, who want to be the region's most influential power but have not exerted themselves to help Washington. Instead, throughout the conflict, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman's primary concern has been to ensure that he does nothing that would provoke the Iranians and undermine the de-escalation that Riyadh and Tehran agreed to under Chinese auspices in March 2023. The Iranians' demonstrated capacity to sow chaos across the region since Hamas's attack on Israel has no doubt made an impression on the Saudis. As a result, they have elected to remain on the sidelines, issuing blandishments about a cease-fire and the need to resolve the Palestinian question, even though the combination of Saudi financial resources and influence in Jerusalem would be useful.
For their part, the Emiratis -- Israel's closest partner in the Arab world -- want to help but remain skeptical of American efforts. That is because they have found the Israelis to be impervious to advice and are dubious that the Biden administration is willing to pressure the Israelis to negotiate with the Palestinians. Without a resolution to the conflict, the Emirati leadership, which does not have relations with the PA's Mahmoud Abbas, also refuses to be treated as "the ATM for Gaza's reconstruction," as one Emirati official derisively quipped. Officials in Abu Dhabi fear any investment in the Gaza Strip will be lost in the next round of conflict between the Israel Defense Forces and Hamas. Bahrain's leaders view the situation similarly, though they have little capacity to act without their larger and wealthier neighbors.
Then there are the Qataris, who along with the Turks have long supported Hamas. It is true that Emir Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani used his good offices to secure the release of 110 hostages in November and recently brokered a deal to provide the remaining ones with medicine. But over the last decade, it was under the nose of a senior Qatari diplomat posted in Gaza and charged with distributing aid and reconstruction funds that Hamas built up its military capabilities. The American plans for the "day after" hinge on the destruction of Hamas, but there is no indication from Doha that it is willing to give up that relationship. The same is true for Turkey, whose leaders have declared Hamas to be a national liberation movement.
Under these circumstances, it is no wonder that Blinken's periodic visits to the Middle East have not produced anything. If the Biden administration were more proactive, however, it might have a chance of breaking down regional resistance to its approach.
For starters, U.S. officials could cut the Turks and Qataris out of the process. Both countries seek to enhance their prestige in the Arab and Muslim world by playing both sides of the fence, and they are never held accountable for their solicitous approach toward Hamas. Blinken must drop the fantasy that either Doha or Ankara is prepared to be constructive in the Biden administration's endgame plans for Gaza and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Biden must also be tougher on Abbas. Instead of vague plans about reinvigorating the PA -- which could take years -- Washington needs to apply pressure on the aging, corrupt and ineffectual leader either to leave now or cede power to a prime minister who can act independently of him and build the political coalitions necessary to run Gaza. It would also be a welcome move among people in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Then there is Iran and its "axis of resistance," which has sowed chaos around the region for years. It is hard not to conclude that the escalating violence in the Middle East since Hamas's October 7 massacre of Israelis is the beginning of a larger conflict that Iran and its proxies have long wanted. It is not too late for Washington to nip this in the bud and take a tougher stand on Tehran. The Iranians see the limited nature of U.S. military operations and incessant statements about not wanting escalation as nothing but American weakness.
Instead of pinprick strikes on the Houthis in Yemen, the U.S. must destroy their ability to target shipping in the Red Sea. More sustained military action against the Houthis would all at once secure freedom of navigation, which is a core American interest, mitigate the Iranian threat and demonstrate to Washington's partners that it is willing to take decisive action to ensure regional stability.
Of course, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is not making it any easier on Biden and Blinken with his wholesale rejection of their postwar vision. That is a problem that could be mitigated, however, if Washington drove developments in the region rather than merely responded to them. If the Biden administration is opposed to another Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip, then the best chance for it to realize its goals is to bring Blinken's listening tours to an end in favor of resolute American action.
---
Steven A. Cook is the Eni Enrico Mattei Senior Fellow for Middle East and Africa Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Credit: By Steven A. Cook
: Political activism; International relations; Palestinian people; Leadership; Presidents; Prime ministers; Armed forces; Truces & cease fires; International relations-US
: : International relations Leadership; : 92111 :‎ Executive Offices 92811 :‎ National Security
: Middle East; Turkey; United States--US; Israel; Egypt; Iran; Bahrain; Gaza Strip
: Netanyahu, Benjamin
/: : Palestinian National Authority; NAICS: 921190; : Hamas; NAICS: 813940
: 92111: Executive Offices; 92811: National Security
: REVIEW --- Can the U.S. Find Allies To Help in Gaza? --- America's traditional partners in the Middle East are skeptical of the Biden administration's plan to rebuild the Gaza Strip by putting the Palestinian Authority in charge.
: Cook, Steven A
: Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.
: C.4
: 2024
: Jan 27, 2024
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance
ISSN: 00999660
: English
: Commentary, Opinions
ProQuest  ID: 2918681769
URL: 
: Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-01-29
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Can the U.S. Find Allies to Help in Gaza? America's traditional partners in the Middle East are skeptical of the Biden administration's plans to rebuild the Gaza Strip by putting the Palestinian Authority in charge.
: Cook, Steven A. 
: The Biden administration's so-called "day after" plan for the Gaza Strip has not been going well, especially in eliciting support from America's partners in the Middle East.
Not long before Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in the Turkish capital in early January to discuss the war in Gaza, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan declared that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu "is richer than Hitler" and gets "all sorts of support" from the U.S. The Turkish leader has a long history of blood-curdling rhetoric that links Israelis with Nazis and has long supported Hamas in word and deed. Still, after his meetings in Turkey, Blinken told reporters that "it's clear that Turkey is prepared to play a positive, productive role in the work that needs to happen the day after the conflict ends."
Nor did the Secretary of State fare well through the rest of his trip, returning home with very little to show for his efforts. Indeed, if Blinken's recent tour of the Middle East revealed anything, it is that America's regional partners are deeply reluctant to help with President Joe Biden's diplomatic push to "reinvigorate" the Palestinian Authority (PA), extend its rule to the Gaza Strip and cajole the Israelis and Palestinians to resume long-suspended negotiations to end their conflict. Even the plan to end the war announced by the Arab states last weekend is little more than a warmed-over peace initiative that has been rattling around since 2002. Still, even though it is tempting to write off America's regional partners as timorous, weak and skeptical, much of the problem lies with Washington.
The Biden administration would have a better chance of securing help from friends in the region if it was not so passive. It is not that the leaders of Egypt, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, the U.A.E. and Bahrain are opposed to Biden's effort to revive the PA and the two-state solution. But no one is going to lend a hand to the U.S. unless Washington takes decisive action to reform the PA, confront Iran's "axis of resistance" and isolate the region's arsonists, notably Qatar and Turkey.
The region's key players are hemmed between domestic political support for the Palestinians and their strategic ties with the U.S. The Jordanians, who have long and deep ties to the U.S., have done nothing except issue increasingly strident condemnations of Israel from Foreign Minister Ayman Safadi and Queen Rania. No doubt this is a function of the political pressure in a country where a majority of citizens, including the queen, are of Palestinian origin.
In Egypt, President Abdel Fatah el Sisi is surely aware that any number of groups that were involved in instigating the 2011 uprising against President Hosni Mubarak originated in Palestinian solidarity committees that sprung up during the second intifada in the early 2000s. He has thus been cautious about working with the Biden administration, which many Egyptian activists charge with facilitating a "genocide" in Gaza. Still, Egypt has been more active than Jordan. Cairo has helped win the release of Israeli hostages and is the only pipeline for whatever aid is getting to the people of Gaza.
Then there are the Saudis, who want to be the region's most influential power but have not exerted themselves to help Washington. Instead, throughout the conflict, Crown Prince Mohamed bin Salman's primary concern has been to ensure that he does nothing that would provoke the Iranians and undermine the de-escalation that Riyadh and Tehran agreed to under Chinese auspices in March 2023. The Iranians' demonstrated capacity to sow chaos across the region since Hamas's attack on Israel has no doubt made an impression on the Saudis. As a result, they have elected to remain on the sidelines, issuing blandishments about a cease-fire and the need to resolve the Palestinian question, even though the combination of Saudi financial resources and influence in Jerusalem would be useful.
For their part, the Emiratis—Israel's closest partner in the Arab world—want to help but remain skeptical of American efforts. That is because they have found the Israelis to be impervious to advice and are dubious that the Biden administration is willing to pressure the Israelis to negotiate with the Palestinians. Without a resolution to the conflict, the Emirati leadership, which does not have relations with the PA's Mahmoud Abbas, also refuses to be treated as "the ATM for Gaza's reconstruction," as one Emirati official derisively quipped. Officials in Abu Dhabi fear any investment in the Gaza Strip will be lost in the next round of conflict between the Israel Defense Forces and Hamas. Bahrain's leaders view the situation similarly, though they have little capacity to act without their larger and wealthier neighbors.
Then there are the Qataris, who along with the Turks have long supported Hamas. It is true that Emir Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani used his good offices to secure the release of 110 hostages in November and recently brokered a deal to provide the remaining ones with medicine. But over the last decade, it was under the nose of a senior Qatari diplomat posted in Gaza and charged with distributing aid and reconstruction funds that Hamas built up its military capabilities. The American plans for the "day after" hinge on the destruction of Hamas, but there is no indication from Doha that it is willing to give up that relationship. The same is true for Turkey, whose leaders have declared Hamas to be a national liberation movement.
Under these circumstances, it is no wonder that Blinken's periodic visits to the Middle East have not produced anything. If the Biden administration were more proactive, however, it might have a chance of breaking down regional resistance to its approach.
For starters, U.S. officials could cut the Turks and Qataris out of the process. Both countries seek to enhance their prestige in the Arab and Muslim world by playing both sides of the fence, and they are never held accountable for their solicitous approach toward Hamas. Blinken must drop the fantasy that either Doha or Ankara is prepared to be constructive in the Biden administration's endgame plans for Gaza and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Biden must also be tougher on Abbas. Instead of vague plans about reinvigorating the PA—which could take years—Washington needs to apply pressure on the aging, corrupt and ineffectual leader either to leave now or cede power to a prime minister who can act independently of him and build the political coalitions necessary to run Gaza. It would also be a welcome move among people in the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Then there is Iran and its "axis of resistance," which has sowed chaos around the region for years. It is hard not to conclude that the escalating violence in the Middle East since Hamas's October 7 massacre of Israelis is the beginning of a larger conflict that Iran and its proxies have long wanted. It is not too late for Washington to nip this in the bud and take a tougher stand on Tehran. The Iranians see the limited nature of U.S. military operations and incessant statements about not wanting escalation as nothing but American weakness.
Instead of pinprick strikes on the Houthis in Yemen, the U.S. must destroy their ability to target shipping in the Red Sea. More sustained military action against the Houthis would all at once secure freedom of navigation, which is a core American interest, mitigate the Iranian threat and demonstrate to Washington's partners that it is willing to take decisive action to ensure regional stability.
Of course, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is not making it any easier on Biden and Blinken with his wholesale rejection of their postwar vision. That is a problem that could be mitigated, however, if Washington drove developments in the region rather than merely responded to them. If the Biden administration is opposed to another Israeli occupation of the Gaza Strip, then the best chance for it to realize its goals is to bring Blinken's listening tours to an end in favor of resolute American action.
Steven A. Cook is the Eni Enrico Mattei Senior Fellow for Middle East and Africa Studies at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Credit: By Steven A. Cook
: Political activism; International relations; Palestinian people; Leadership; Presidents; Prime ministers; Armed forces; Truces & cease fires
: : International relations Leadership; : 92111 :‎ Executive Offices 92811 :‎ National Security
: Middle East; Turkey; United States--US; Israel; Egypt; Iran; Bahrain; Gaza Strip
: Netanyahu, Benjamin
/: : Palestinian National Authority; NAICS: 921190; : Hamas; NAICS: 813940
: 92111: Executive Offices; 92811: National Security
: Can the U.S. Find Allies to Help in Gaza? America's traditional partners in the Middle East are skeptical of the Biden administration's plans to rebuild the Gaza Strip by putting the Palestinian Authority in charge.
: Cook, Steven A
: Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
: 2024
: Jan 25, 2024
: Essay
: Life
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics
e-ISSN: 25749579
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2918223293
URL: 
: Copyright 2024 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-01-27
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
A longevity doctor shares his 10-minute morning routine to reduce stress and improve focus
: Landsverk, Gabby. 
: - Anti-aging specialist Dr. Kien Vuu said his morning routine helps to promote health and longevity.
- He includes evidence-based habits like exercise, breathwork, and meditation.
- The routine is simple and easy to follow to reduce stress and improve focus in just a few minutes.
A doctor who specializes in anti-aging said he starts every day with a simple 10-minute morning routine that combines multiple science-based strategies for a longer, healthier life.
Dr. Kien Vuu, a triple-board certified physician with a focus on performance and longevity, said that there are five categories or "pillars" of health: physical, mental, emotional, social, and purpose.
While it may seem overwhelming to try to juggle all of them, you incorporate each aspect into daily healthy habits that take just a few minutes at a time.
"Every moment in life, we have an opportunity to make a choice in how we show up," he told Business Insider.
Vuu said his morning routine checks off several categories for boosting longevity, with exercise, stress-relieving breathwork, and a short meditation to improve mental and emotional health. The 10-minute routine can help you get a head start on your day, stay focused and energized, and help extend your lifespan all at once.
The day starts with a big glass of water and some sunshine
Vuu said his first step on waking up is to drink between eight to 16 ounces of water, with added lemon and electrolytes or mineral salt (such as pink Himalayan salt or Celtic sea salt, which you can find at grocery stores and have more trace elements like calcium and magnesium than regular table salt). Doing so helps to restore hydration and adds a boost of nutrients.
He also makes an effort to get direct sunlight on his skin and face in the morning, which can help support the body's natural sleep-wake cycles to support consistent energy levels.
He does a five minute exercise routine with qigong and burpees
Next, Vuu said he gets energized for the day ahead with a quick routine based on qigong, a practice of gentle, mindful exercise that originates in traditional Chinese medicine. The two movements he recommends are:
-
Qigong hops: Raise your shoulders up and then let them drop down, allowing your whole body to bounce as though you're on a trampoline
-
Qigong twists: Keeping your arms relaxed, twist from side to side, allowing your hands to swing and gently slap against your chest as you rotate. Repeat, this time letting your hands slap against your thighs with each twist.
He ends with a round of 10 to 15 burpees, providing a burst of high-intensity training.
Evidence suggests that short periods of exercise, particularly movements that raise your heart rate, can improve focus and help stave off the negative health effects of being sedentary.
"It's building energy," Vuu said. "Just five minutes is enough to get the energy going."
A few minutes of breathwork help set the tone for the day
After exercise, Vuu said he sets aside two to three minutes to practice breathing techniques that can help enhance focus and relieve stress.
There are a variety of deep breathing strategies you can try — the simplest is to inhale through your nose for four seconds, hold for seven seconds, and exhale for eight seconds.
Vuu also shared an energizing morning breathwork practice on his Vimeo channel. Here's what he suggests:
-
Inhale through the nose, focusing on "belly breathing" and inflating the abdomen.
-
Without exhaling, immediately inhale through the nose again, this time bringing air into the chest.
-
Exhale through the mouth.
-
Repeat for 10 cycles, then do the same pattern at double speed.Next:
-
Take a deep breath through the nose, engaging all the muscles of your body, and hold for 10 to 15 seconds.
-
Exhale through the mouth, then pause for 30 seconds, focusing on a few key words you want to embody for the day ahead. Examples include connection, calm, focus, or joy.
-
End with a final deep breath in, holding for 10 to 15 seconds and releasing.
-
Repeat twice for a total of three rounds.
He ends his morning routine with a short gratitude meditation
Vuu said meditation is a regular part of his routine, particularly exercises that emphasize gratitude. He said that he was initially skeptical of gratitude exercises, instead focusing on the next achievement or milestone instead of what he already had.
"I didn't pay attention to gratitude at all until my mid 30s. I felt like I needed more to feel more worthy," Vuu said.
Gratitude meditation can be as simple as taking one minute to focus on things in your life that you're grateful for, which Vuu said causes changes in the body and brain that can boost health and longevity. For instance, evidence suggests gratitude releases feel-good hormones like oxytocin that help reduce blood pressure and regulate other measures of physical (and mental) health.
"Every time we feel gratitude, there's a biochemical response that has anti-inflammatory benefits," he said.
: Exercise; Meditation
: A longevity doctor shares his 10-minute morning routine to reduce stress and improve focus
: Landsverk, Gabby
: Business Insider, US edition; New York
: 2024
: Jan 25, 2024
: Health
: Insider, Inc.
: New York
/: United States, New York
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--United States
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2918173204
URL: 
: Copyright Insider, Inc. Jan 25, 2024
: 2024-01-26
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Karachi Univ Professor wins 37th Khwarizmi International Award
: Prof. Dr. Raza Shah, the Senior Professor at the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), the University of Karachi, has won the 37th Khwarizmi International Award (KIA) in Biological and Chemical Sciences. Prof. Raza Shah will attend the 37th KIA Award Ceremony at the end of February in Tehran, where the Pakistani scientist will be awarded the trophy, certificate, and cash prize of 20,000 USD by the President of the Islamic Republic of Iran. The award is given to the most prominent scientists in the world and is considered to be a highly prestigious award in the world in general and Iran in particular. The ICCBS, University of Karachi Director, Prof. Dr. Farzana Shaheen congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his great achievement. According to the spokesman of the ICCBS, University of Karachi, the awards have been announced by the Ministry of Science, Research and Technology, Iranian Research Organization for Science and Technology to recognize the valuable achievements of the researchers, innovators, and inventors in the field of Science and Technology. It is worth mentioning here that the Khwarizmi International Award is named in memory of the achievements of Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi, the Iranian mathematician and astronomer. According to the ICCBS Spokesman, Prof. Shah, working in the area of Nanomedicine and Supramolecular Chemistry, has authored six books (Elsevier) and also edited four books (Elsevier), along with 12 chapters in books and more than 460 research articles in international journals with impact factor more than 1700 with Hindex 50. He has three US patents to his credit. He has supervised and co-supervised 35 Ph.Ds. and 44 M.S/M.Phil scholars. He was declared the top scientist for the year 2019 by the government of KPK. He received the Civil Award of Tamgha-i-Imtiaz in 2015. He received the Dr. Atta-ur-Rahman gold medal in 2006 and the Dr. Raziuddin gold medal in 2015 from the Pakistan Academy of Sciences. He received the Dr. Abdus Salam (Nobel Laureate) award in chemistry. One of his authored books was declared the best book of the year 2017 by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. He is a fellow of various national and international academies and organizations. He led the vaccine (COVID-19) phase-1 clinical trial of Sinopharm Company in Pakistan. He led the DRAP-approved clinical trial for treating COVID-19 patients with traditional Chinese medicines. The Vice Chancellor of the University of Karachi, Prof. Dr. Khalid Mehmood Iraqi, Prof. Dr. Atta-ur Rahman, Professor Emeritus and former Federal Minister for Science and Technology, and Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary, the Coordinator-General OIC-COMSTECH, and UNESCO CHAIR on Medicinal and Bio-Organic Natural Product Chemistry ICCBS, also congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his achievement.
: Clinical trials; Chemistry; Science; Awards & honors; COVID-19
: Iran; Pakistan
/: : University of Karachi; NAICS: 611310
: Karachi Univ Professor wins 37th Khwarizmi International Award
: The Financial Daily; Karachi
: 2024
: Jan 18, 2024
: KARACHI
: AsiaNet Pakis tan (Pvt) Ltd.
: Karachi
/: Pakistan, Karachi
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2915917997
URL: 
: (c)2024 The Financial Daily
: 2024-01-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Sanitary-ware brands bet big on the bathroom business
: Kerk, Corinne. 
: OVER a span of less than four weeks late last year, three leading manufacturers of bathroom fittings and fixtures launched new showrooms and flaunted pristine sanitary ware, gleaming mixers and dazzling live shower areas.
Kicking off on Nov 3 was Dornbracht, which opened its Singapore showroom at Ann Siang Road. At 1,400 square feet (sq ft), the by-appointment-only Dornbracht Experience Centre is the second showroom outside of Germany that is directly owned and managed by the German brand. Established in 1950, Dornbracht's luxury bathroom fittings are seen as the "Rolls Royce" of brassware.
Just six days later, Duravit unveiled its first retail showroom at nearby Tras Street. The 1,200 sq ft premises previously served as its regional training centre, catering to distributors and B2B clientele. Now, it is also the 207-year-old German brand's first B2C retail concept in the world.
Later the same month, the media was introduced to the new 11,000 sq ft, three-storey Lixil Experience Centre, where a showcase of the luxury Grohe Spa collection on the third floor was the main event.
In all, there were enough shiny faucets, sculptural sinks and sleek bathtubs to make you question the choices you made for your own bathroom. And that's probably the point, because consumers are increasingly willing to splash out on their dream bathrooms, and the race is heating up for a share of that revenue.
For what it's worth The humble loo may be one of the smallest rooms in the home, but its role has changed from being just a place to wash up to a personal sanctuary where you can truly have "me time". Besides, guests are likely to use it too, and well-appointed bathrooms leave a good impression.
Duravit Asia's general manager, Alpha Ang, says interest in bathroom design has increased in recent years internationally, with more high-end consumers paying greater attention to how their bathrooms look in their homes.
"As people travel and stay in upmarket hotels, they appreciate the luxury and want the same at home too," he says. "They now place the same level of emotion and focus on their bathrooms as they would on the living room and kitchen, to suit their personal preferences."
While there are no official figures as to the size of the Singapore market for bathroom fixtures and fittings, Satoshi Konagai, leader of Lixil Water Technology Asia Pacific, estimates it to be worth around S$200 million.
Lixil is a listed Japanese company that owns sanitary-ware brands including American Standard, Inax and Grohe.
Grohe is a German brand with a history of over 80 years, and Grohe Spa is its luxury sub-brand. Introduced in 2013, Grohe Spa was revitalised at the Milan Design Week in April last year.
"Post-pandemic growth was higher due to pent-up demand in the property development and hospitality industries," says Konagai. He also sees a growing tendency here to invest in the bathroom for relaxation and comfort, ahead of other things such as furniture.
Indeed, Seah Jin Long, Dornbracht's regional sales manager for South-east Asia, sees people spending more on their bathrooms than their kitchens. In a master bathroom, the brand's fittings alone -- such as basin and shower mixers -- easily cost upwards of S$20,000. On average, landed homeowners spend about S$100,000 on Dornbracht fittings across three to four bathrooms.
Given that at the luxury end of the market, most sanitary ware is specified by architects and designers, Duravit is forecasting a 170 per cent increase in retail sales in the next two years as it expands its reach to more end-consumers with its showroom.
"With increasing demand in bathroom hygiene and the need for a "home oasis" to rewind and recharge, we expect stronger growth in the coming years," says Ang. Sales for the brand, which also collaborates with well-known designers such as Philippe Starck, Sebastian Herkner, Christian Werner, and Studio F A Porsche for its collections, has grown consistently over the years at an average rate of 15 to 20 per cent.
Meanwhile, in recent years, Dornbracht has seen a "remarkable growth rate" of over 30 per cent in Singapore -- an integral part of its Asia-Pacific hub -- with the rate hitting almost 50 per cent last year. "Overall, the Asian market already accounts for around 21 per cent of our worldwide sales, and the trend is rising," says Seah, adding that South-east Asia will be the brand's key market over the next 10 years.
The brand focuses only on the top 5 per cent of the market, where competition started to really pick up in 2022, he says. And that's because wealthy customers are still flowing in. "The rich are different. They are not impacted by the economic downturn or Covid situation."
While it is "definitely getting more competitive", Duravit's Ang says the market is adjusting itself to differentiate brands into various price segments based on brand equity and consumer perception. "There is still room for everyone, including new entrants to the fittings market, but not every brand will be considered at the luxury level by B2B and end-consumers," he points out.
In fact, customers are benefiting from the growing competition between brands as this encourages the industry to innovate and create new products and personalised offerings, says Konagai.
What people want: some TLC in the WC Growth in the sector has been fuelled by the Covid pandemic, which put greater focus on the home, underscoring a desire for well-being in everyday life.
"This is especially true for the bathroom, which was once a very overlooked part of the house," says Ang. "Nowadays, consumers are opting for materials and products that will elevate the look and feel of every room in the house, including the bathroom. There is a significant shift towards wanting an aesthetically pleasing bathroom, which also houses smarter technology and high-end products."
Increasingly, luxury residential projects in Singapore are looking into installing smart toilets -- that is, those that can connect via Bluetooth to a mobile device to control functions of the toilet -- in the master bathrooms, he notes. "This will be the next wave of growth for most luxury brands in terms of product category."
Lixil's Konagai says lines between functional rooms such as bathrooms, kitchens and living rooms are blurring, so these spaces have become more flexible and personalised.
The bathroom, for example, has turned into a personal retreat for holistic wellness. "The renaissance of the bathroom and its increasing significance as a regeneration zone has raised expectations when it comes to bathroom planning," he observes. "The bathroom is evolving into a home spa."
Consequently, home spa systems with plenty of bells and whistles now feature prominently. As part of its product research and development, Dornbracht, for instance, works with European health and wellness experts, as well as those in Traditional Chinese Medicine, to develop spa and wellness solutions.
"So certain spray modes enhance muscle relaxation or blood circulation, and these are tested," says Seah, adding that the brand has sold "quite a fair bit" of such home spa solutions since the pandemic.
As homeowners put more thought and money into bathrooms, brands are also offering wider options for customisation.
"Individualisation is playing an increasingly important role in the luxury sector," says Seah. "At the higher end of the market, we are seeing a greater demand for specialist finishes; products which offer an elevated, tactile experience and allow consumers to create their own interior look and feel."
Apart from diverse finishes -- ranging from platinum and gold tones such as champagne in 22-karat gold or durabrass in 23-karat gold, to dark chrome or brushed dark platinum -- Dornbracht's clients can also choose from a wide range of interchangeable handle inserts in different materials and styles.
Options include inlays made of seashells, pearl shells and egg shells, available in a new collaboration collection with sustainable brand, Nature Squared.
Customisation, which involves about half of Dornbracht's products sold, can also comprise logo or initial engraving on fittings, dual colours or adjustment of the product's heights.
"We have that kind of flexibility because compared to our competitors, ours is a small factory, and the minimum order quantity for customisation is just one," says Seah.
Over at Grohe Spa, the Atrio and Allure Brilliant private collections allow customers to pick from different colours, materials, finishes and handle options -- including Caesarstone quartz inserts -- to design one-of-a-kind bathroom pieces.
In addition, Grohe Spa is using the precision of 3D metal-printing technology to produce hyper-minimalist faucet designs.
Customers can also create bespoke designs with the technology. But considering that pricing for the stainless steel Allure Brilliant Icon 3D basin mixer starts from S$34,000, the cost of a fully-customised set will be extremely prohibitive.
Not surprisingly, sustainability is also increasingly on the radar of consumers in the luxury segment.
On its part, Duravit has embarked on a new initiative, which will see the production of a 35,000 square metre manufacturing plant in Canada, powered entirely by green electricity. The brand also aims to be carbon-neutral by 2045, says Ang.
At Dornbracht, it blazed the trail last year by being the first in the world to take back its own fittings, recondition them and put them back in the market. Called Dornbracht ReCrafted, its iconic designs are refurbished by craftsmen at its factory in Germany, with each reconditioned fitting saving around 40 per cent in CO2 emissions, compared to a new product. Looking as good as new, they also come with a five-year warranty.
Of course, refurbished basin mixers are probably not on the radar of wealthy homeowners, but they could well be just what's needed to tip others into the enticing world of luxury sanitary ware.
: Design; Gold; Order quantity; Consumers; Designers; Customization; Bathrooms; Pandemics; COVID-19
: : Consumers Designers
: Asia; Singapore
/: : Duravit; NAICS: 327110, 332913
: Sanitary-ware brands bet big on the bathroom business
: Kerk, Corinne
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Jan 12, 2024
: Lifestyle
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2913407870
URL:  870/se-2?accountid=45062
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-01-12
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
The Problems of Plantation Versus Artisanal Tea Thinking [Leisure]
: Doctor, Vikram. 
: FOOD FABLES
Another New Year, another time to wonder about the mysteries of Indian tea. Tea is one of the really great food products produced in India -- Darjeeling, in particular, but interesting teas are grown in other places as well.
Tea is a relatively affordable passion, since it doesn't require all the gadgets coffee-lovers covet, like espresso machines and burr grind- ers. Coffee's caffeine jolt has its hardcore addicts, but tea's mellow pleasures appeal to those who savour the many variations caused by different ways of growing, picking and processing leaves.
Indian tea should have a strong market, but every year ends with dismal news. Plantations closing. Countries like Nepal and Sri Lanka cutting into export markets. Traditional bulk consumers like Russia and Iran reducing imports. And climate change threatening everything.
The problem lies in how the tea industry developed in India. Tea is native to the hills stretching from north-east India to south-west China. For centuries its leaves were brewed as a medicine, boiled as a drink and fermented and eaten. It was the Chinese who developed it primarily as a drink. The earliest form of processing may have been the dried, compressed bricks, still found in pu-er, an ancient style of tea.
During the Song dynasty (960-1271 CE), loose leaf styles developed. These were processed in lighter ways, like steaming, to retain more of the character of the leaves. In later centuries, roasting and drying styles developed, along with variations like partially fermented mellow oolong and fully fermented strong black tea.
Most of this was done by small farmers in the remote hilly areas where tea grew best. It was a craft industry, and tea lovers appreciated the nuances of taste from different small batches of tea. But when tea travelled to the West, this craft aspect was lost. Global tea traders wanted standardised tea and in larger quantities than the small tea farmers of south-western China could produce.
Tea also became valued as a stimulant, rather than for its taste. Strong black tea, with lots of sugar, fuelled workers in the UK's Industrial Revolution.
Sweet tea and bread became a staple diet in booming industrial cities, an unhealthy but cheap energy fix. The industrialists who employed these workers sought to boost black tea production. India offered the ideal place and the British Raj created plantations in the hilly areas of the Northeast and the Niligiris.
Unexpectedly, one of these areas, Darjeeling was found to have great conditions for growing fine tea. This was a bonus, but the industry's focus was on mass-market tea. The Chinese had prized variations between batches of tea, but India's bulk tea business demanded standardisation. Tea-tasters now mixed batches to create the blends that worked best in each market. The development of the CTC (Cut-Tear-Curl) process in Assam in the 1930s, where machines shredded and dried leaves into uniform granules, made tea into even more of a factory product.
The plantation model built India's tea industry, especially after the domestic market for tea was created in the 1930s. But it always had a flaw -- it could be easily replicated elsewhere, which is what happened in Sri Lanka and Kenya. One mass market style of tea could always be easily swapped for another, even cheaper one. By contrast, smallscale production, which prioritises different tastes and production styles, creates teas which can command higher prices and cult appeal.
Some Indian plantations, like Gopaldhara and Dorje, are experimenting with roasted, smoked and oolong teas. But the major potential is with small producers in the Northeast who can create artisanal tea on the old Chinese model, or sell their own styles, like smoky phalap. This kind of production is also resilient and less subject to climate change. India's mainstream tea industry appears to have little interest in these small producers. Luckily, the internet allows them to sell to tealovers around the world -- while the larger tea industry continues its steady decline.
: Plantations; Tea; Leaves
: : 31192 :‎ Coffee and Tea Manufacturing
: China; India; Sri Lanka
: 31192: Coffee and Tea Manufacturing
: The Problems of Plantation Versus Artisanal Tea Thinking [Leisure ]
: Doctor, Vikram
: The Economic Times (Online); New Delhi
: 2024
: Jan 7, 2024
: Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2910875740
URL: 
: Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Jan 7, 2024
: 2024-01-07
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Tea plantations may be a dying breed, but small-time producers have become the lifeline for chai lovers [Food & Drinks]
: Doctor, Vikram. 
: Another New Year, another time to wonder about the mysteries of Indian tea. Tea is one of the really great food products produced in India -- Darjeeling, in particular, but interesting teas are grown in other places as well. Tea is a relatively affordable passion, since it doesn't require all the gadgets coffee-lovers covet, like espresso machines and burr grinders. Coffee's caffeine jolt has its hardcore addicts, but tea's mellow pleasures appeal to those who savour the many variations caused by different ways of growing, picking and processing leaves. Indian tea should have a strong market, but every year ends with dismal news. Plantations closing. Countries like Nepal and Sri Lanka cutting into export markets. Traditional bulk consumers like Russia and Iran reducing imports. And climate change threatening everything. The problem lies in how the tea industry developed in India. Tea is native to the hills stretching from north-east India to south-west China. For centuries its leaves were brewed as a medicine, boiled as a drink and fermented and eaten. It was the Chinese who developed it primarily as a drink. The earliest form of processing may have been the dried, compressed bricks, still found in 'pu-er', an ancient style of tea. During the Song dynasty (960-1271 CE), loose leaf styles developed. These were processed in lighter ways, like steaming, to retain more of the character of the leaves. In later centuries, roasting and drying styles developed, along with variations like partially fermented mellow oolong and fully fermented strong black tea. Most of this was done by small farmers in the remote hilly areas where tea grew best. It was a craft industry, and tea lovers appreciated the nuances of taste from different small batches of tea. But when tea travelled to the West, this craft aspect was lost. Global tea traders wanted standardised tea and in larger quantities than the small tea farmers of south-western China could produce. Tea also became valued as a stimulant, rather than for its taste. Strong black tea, with lots of sugar, fuelled workers in the UK's Industrial Revolution. Sweet tea and bread became a staple diet in booming industrial cities, an unhealthy but cheap energy fix. The industrialists who employed these workers sought to boost black tea production. India offered the ideal place and the British Raj created plantations in the hilly areas of the Northeast and the Nilgiri. Unexpectedly, one of these areas, Darjeeling was found to have great conditions for growing fine tea. This was a bonus, but the industry's focus was on mass-market tea. The Chinese had prized variations between batches of tea, but India's bulk tea business demanded standardisation. Tea-tasters now mixed batches to create the blends that worked best in each market. The development of the CTC (Cut-Tear-Curl) process in Assam in the 1930s, where machines shredded and dried leaves into uniform granules, made tea into even more of a factory product. The plantation model built India's tea industry, especially after the domestic market for tea was created in the 1930s. But it always had a flaw -- it could be easily replicated elsewhere, which is what happened in Sri Lanka and Kenya. One mass market style of tea could always be easily swapped for another, even cheaper one. By contrast, small-scale production, which prioritises different tastes and production styles, creates teas which can command higher prices and cult appeal. Some Indian plantations, like Gopaldhara and Dorje, are experimenting with roasted, smoked and oolong teas. But the major potential is with small producers in the Northeast who can create artisanal tea on the old Chinese model, or sell their own styles, like smoky phalap. This kind of production is also resilient and less subject to climate change. India's mainstream tea industry appears to have little interest in these small producers. Luckily, the internet allows them to sell to tealovers around the world -- while the larger tea industry continues its steady decline.
: Plantations; Tea; Leaves
: : 31192 :‎ Coffee and Tea Manufacturing
: China; India; Sri Lanka
: 31192: Coffee and Tea Manufacturing
: Tea plantations may be a dying breed, but small-time producers have become the lifeline for chai lovers [Food & Drinks ]
: Doctor, Vikram
: The Economic Times; New Delhi
: 2024
: Jan 7, 2024
: Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--India
ISSN: 09718680
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2910873610
URL: 
: Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Jan 7, 2024
: 2024-01-07
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Unpaid wages lead Sichuan doctors to protest on window ledges
: Authorities in the southwestern Chinese province of Sichuan have denied reports that a group of doctors clung to the outside of a hospital building this week in protest at unpaid wages.
A video clip posted to social media on Dec. 26 showed a number of people in white coats straddling upper-story window frames at the Zhenjiang Temple Community Health Service Center in Suining city, with comments that they were doctors protesting unpaid salaries.
In the video, a large crowd looks on as fire and rescue services lay out large inflatables in case the doctors jump or fall from their perch.
The clip emerged as the Hong Kong-based China Labour Bulletin's Strike Map showed 995 industrial disputes linked to the keyword "wage arrears" since the start of October, describing the Suining medical staff's action as "threatening to jump."
But the municipal government said the reports were inaccurate.
"The online claims that the medical staff were calling for their salaries to be paid are untrue," the Suining Municipal Health Commission said in a Dec. 26 statement.
However, it confirmed in a report aired by Guizhou Radio that the people in white coats were staff at the medical center, and said that "some medical staff are concerned about the transfer of management ... from Suining Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital to local management."
"There have been objections," the statement said, adding that staff have returned to work.
Guizhou Radio later deleted the story, but syndicated copies were still visible on the Sina.com news site on Thursday.
Unpaid wages
A person familiar with the situation but who declined to be identified for safety reasons told Radio Free Asia that the protest was in fact about unpaid wages.
"It's true that they hadn't been paid," the person said. "Everyone is affected, including a lot of government departments, whose employees aren't getting paid."
"Some haven't been paid for the past couple of months, while others have been waiting six months," they said.
The person said the wage arrears are a nationwide and systemic issue, as local governments run out of cash.
"The machine has run out of fuel, and they can't pay anyone any more, and everyone is in despair," they said. "There is no motivation to work."
"This is definitely going to cause problems for the smooth running of the government."
Dissident commentator Ji Feng said the authorities are trying to play down the extent of the issue by deleting reports about protests over wage arrears.
"A lot of local government officials, police officers, teachers and doctors are owed wages right now," Ji said. "They used to praise the Chinese Communist Party and [Xi Jinping], back in the days when they got huge bonuses."
"It goes without saying that the economy is shrinking - the decline continues," he said.
He said the central government has taken over responsibility for some salaries "just to maintain stability."
Uncollected garbage
Reports are already emerging on social media of uncollected garbage piling up in mounds.
In the southern city of Shantou, the local TV station reported on a backlog of trash building up in the Chencuohe residential community this week, because garbage collection teams weren't being paid.
According to the China Labour Bulletin, "the non-payment of wages is by far the most important single cause of labor disputes in China today, not just for laid-off workers but employees in many sectors of the economy where the payment of monthly wages is not guaranteed."
Around 80% of all the collective protests recorded on China Labour Bulletin's Strike Map each year are related at least in part to wage arrears, it said.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Liens; Social networks; Wages & salaries
: : Social networks Wages & salaries
: China
/: : Radio Free Asia; NAICS: 516210
: China: Unpaid wages lead Sichuan doctors to protest on window ledges
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2024
: Jan 3, 2024
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2908782992
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jan 3, 2024
: 2024-01-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
This new year, take healthcare benefits seriously when picking your next job
: BESIDES the usual New Year's resolutions to eat less, exercise more and simply live healthier, consider another resolution to improve your well-being: expecting good healthcare benefits from your employer.
When I started work some 13 years ago, I didn't even think about -- much less ask -- what health benefits were offered at the company I was joining. My 22-year-old self merely cared about whether it was a permanent position, and what the salary would be, before blithely signing the employment contract.
Two toddlers (and therefore two lifetimes) later, health benefits are the second thing I ask about, right after wrangling an agreeable salary.
Yet even if you aren't as old as I am, nor have kids, there are good reasons to pay attention to health benefits when searching for your next opportunity or career move.
Employers know that it is important -- and becoming more so The government itself is taking health benefits seriously. Last year, it raised the minimum mandatory health insurance coverage that employers have to provide for their work permit and S Pass holders.
Since July 1, employers must provide medical coverage of at least S$60,000 per year, quadruple the previous annual claim limit of S$15,000.
This compelled employers to match the level of coverage for local employees too, said Janet Lim, chief human resources officer at engineering and logistics firm Katoen Natie.
"For employers, it's clear that strengthening healthcare options is crucial in today's competitive and ageing job market," she noted. "As things change, businesses see comprehensive healthcare benefits not just as a requirement but also as a key strategy to attract and keep skilled workers."
Conversely, a lack of good healthcare coverage can make it harder to find and keep good employees, she added.
"Nowadays, people care a lot about their well-being, and good healthcare benefits show that a company cares about its employees. If the healthcare package is not up to par, it might turn away potential hires, and existing employees might start looking for better options."
Jocelyn Cai, senior manager for people partners at American software company Databricks, echoed this view. For her, corporate healthcare coverage plays a "pivotal role" in attracting prospective talent.
"Offering robust healthcare benefits showcases a company's commitment to employee well-being and can significantly influence a candidate's decision-making process," she explained. "This assurance alleviates the financial burden associated with medical expenses and creates a sense of security, making it a crucial factor for candidates."
A wide range of coverage Cai sees corporate healthcare coverage as "a strategic investment" in enhancing employee experience.
Her company's coverage is wide, including mental health services; chiropractic treatment; traditional Chinese medicine; osteopathy; an extensive maternity plan; and even spectacles, contact lenses, and laser eye treatments.
Coverage for maternity and dependents, in particular, signals a company's family-friendliness -- something for which the government could afford to advocate, to encourage more working adults to have children.
Some larger firms, especially multinationals, offer insurance for families, coverage for maternity expenses for female employees or spouses of male employees, and also in- and outpatient medical care for all dependents.
I myself have never received coverage for my two children's medical expenses, nor my own maternity expenses. If those expenses had been covered by my employers, the amount of money saved would easily be enough for a second-hand car, even in today's market!
Another growing area of coverage is mental health. Insurer AIA notes a gradual but clear increase in the proportion of its corporate customers that include mental health coverage in their employee benefits. This has reached 10 per cent in 2023, up from less than 1 per cent pre-pandemic.
AIA chief corporate solutions officer Kenneth Tan added: "We have also observed a progressive shift towards preventive care and offering workplace wellness programmes to ensure that the physical, mental and financial needs of employees are looked after holistically."
Bearing the cost In Singapore, the cost of medical care continues to rise. Willis Towers Watson projects a 10.7 per cent rise in 2024, surpassing the global projection of 9.9 per cent.
Organisations should review employee benefits programmes "every couple of years" to ensure their coverage limits can sufficiently cover rising costs of treatment, said Tan.
But Lim added that rising costs also mean greater financial pressures. Her proposed solution: co-payment.
"For a corporate healthcare programme to be sustainable, we are beginning to see a growing trend in co-sharing of medical utilisation costs," she said. "This is an effective gatekeeper to ensure that healthcare benefits are utilised responsibly and appropriately."
Good healthcare coverage means healthier, happier and more productive staff Better coverage means higher business costs -- but it can pay off for employers too.
The assurance of updated and comprehensive healthcare coverage, coupled with investments in well-being such as health checks and encouraging good lifestyle habits, should lead to "healthier, happier and more productive employees", said AIA's Tan.
I personally would agree. After my second pregnancy, I was referred to physiotherapy for the healing of diastasis recti, or the separation of the abdominal muscles. But I was dismayed to discover that an injury sustained as a result of pregnancy is not claimable under my corporate insurance scheme.
Employees will feel more valued and appreciative if their company provides assurance that they do not have to worry about the cost of seeking treatment for their medical ailments, or those of their children.
And who do you think would work harder: those who feel valued and appreciated, or those who have to worry about mounting medical expenses that cannot be claimed from personal or corporate insurance?
Which brings me to my final point:
If your company's healthcare benefits aren't great, get personal insurance as early as possible This advice comes from Cai, who said that it is particularly important for foreigners and people starting families.
"Employees often think their corporate health insurance is sufficient and they do not need personal plans," she noted.
But this can be a mistake. "Employees should check if their medical insurance is portable or non-portable, and I would encourage everyone to get additional personal insurance early on in their careers."
She highlighted the importance of covering gaps. "There are always exclusions in any insurance plan, whether corporate or personal, so individuals should get pre-approvals or confirmation from their insurances ahead of big-ticket non-emergency healthcare bills."
In this new year, may we all have the ability to choose an employer who can provide better assurance, and better healthcare benefits, for less-stressful years ahead.
: Health care expenditures; New year; Mental health; Employers; Employee benefits; Insurance coverage; Health insurance
: : Employers Employee benefits Insurance coverage Health insurance
: Singapore
: This new year, take healthcare benefits seriously when picking your next job
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2024
: Jan 1, 2024
: LIFE'S WORK
: Working Life
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2908075464
URL: 
: © 2024 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2024-01-08
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: College Graduates in China Work Two Jobs to Make a Living
: Life as a college graduate has not turned out as expected for Liu Chang, who graduated from Hebei University of Traditional Chinese Medicine in 2020 with a bachelor's degree in acupuncture and massage.
He has been working since 2022 in the administrative staff of a community hospital in Shijiazhuang, Hebei. Like many recent graduates in China, he has found that his salary is not enough to make ends meet. So, in September, he started a street stall to boost his income.
"After getting off work at 5 p.m. on December 18, I rode a food bike to the night market," he told VOA in recounting a typical day in his life as a street vendor.
"There were already many stall owners. The weather has been cold recently, and not many people come out as they did in the summer. When the business is good, I go out every night and make four to five thousand yuan a month, which is the same as my monthly salary" from the hospital, Liu said.
He said he was born in 1997 to a poor rural family. With his younger brother studying for a postgraduate degree in environmental science at Hebei University of Science and Technology, and because the family could afford to support the education of only one son, Liu's parents have not given him a penny since college. Sometimes he didn't even have enough money to see a doctor when he was sick.
High unemployment rate for young adults
Liu's story is not unique. The unemployment rate among 16- to 24-year-olds in China reached a record high of 21.3% in June, according to official data, raising concerns about what tens of millions of college students each year will do after graduation.
Liu said that with the scarcity of white-collar jobs, more and more college graduates are forced to turn to the informal sector. Street vending has attracted many people due to the increasing economic uncertainty.
"Many of my classmates are doing this. They can't afford to buy a property after college, so they rent a place. And they never have enough money to spend," Liu said.
"In the first two years after graduation, I interviewed with 18 companies," he said. "On one hand, the salary was too low, and on the other hand, the jobs were not related to my major.
"I work for survival. After studying for a long time, I don't get to practice anything I learned. Including what I am doing now, nothing has to do with what I studied," he said.
Wang Haisheng, from Meizhou City, Guangdong province, graduated from Luoyang University of Science and Technology in 2018 with a bachelor's degree in mechanical design, manufacture and automation. After graduation, he worked in sales for Luoyang Northern Glass Technology for over a year.
However, due to the pandemic and his physical condition, he had to move back to his hometown, where he worked in the engineering department of a food factory and made 4,000 yuan ($560) a month.
"I was assigned to the idlest position, patrolling and watching wind turbines every day," Wang said. Less than a year later, he was let go due to changes in management.
He said college graduates with the same degree as his work on the assembly line, and their wages are less than 4,000 yuan. They work 10 to 12 hours a day on average but don't receive insurance and housing funds available to many other Chinese workers.
Because the college graduates are hired as contractors, Wang said, "they only make 70% of what regular employees make. More than half of the workers there are contractors because of the low cost."
'Huge gap between expectations and reality'
Left jobless by the food factory, Wang tried to generate some income by selling plants online but failed. In July, he started running a street stall because he couldn't afford to live without an income.
"My father works at a construction site, and my two sisters are married and have children, and no one can help me," Wang said.
Like him, he said, many college graduates in China have had to make a difficult adjustment in their expectations.
"The work is meaningless, and the process is very painful," he said.
"There is a huge gap between expectations and reality, he said. When we were little, we were taught to be the masters of the world. But in the end, we are just ordinary members of society who cannot even find a job where we can apply what we have learned."
Li Ping, a 2012 graduate of Beijing Normal University, said that since 2017, he has been selling shoes and bags at a stall in the Xizhimen area in Beijing, even when he had a day job. Since losing his full-time job, street vending is his only source of income.
Li, who majored in information management and information systems, said financial difficulties are the main issue for college-graduate street vendors. Although the government claims to be solving this problem, there is no actual improvement, he said.
"This is just how the current workplace environment is, and the only way is to adapt to the reality," Li said. - VOA
: College graduates; Unemployment; Personal profiles; Employment; Economic conditions
: : Unemployment Employment Economic conditions
: China; Beijing China
/: : Hebei University; NAICS: 611310
: China: College Graduates in China Work Two Jobs to Make a Living
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Dec 25, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2904632846
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Dec 25, 2023
: 2024-07-15
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
7 best beauty products that are part of K-pop stars' nighttime routine, in UAE, for 2023
: Under constant rolling cameras and in between hectic schedules, Korean pop stars will always leave us in awe of their perfect skin. Some may attribute it to make-up, but the truth is, skincare is fundamental to these young performers. Even if it means tackling a multi-step nighttime regimen after a long day of filming, dancing and singing.
In fact, they're so intrinsically linked to the skincare industry that brand endorsements are routine, and so are late-night live streams, where artists answer their fans' most burning question of the hour: 'What's your skincare routine?'
Thanks to curious K-pop fans, we now have a well-documented archive on social media of their favourite stars' most-used beauty items. But none would be as important to note down as a K-pop artist's PM essentials. Our skin renews and repairs during sleep, allowing products to maximise their full potential at night and give us jaw-dropping results in the morning.
Editor's tip Score massive discounts on all things beauty during Amazon's Beauty Week, running until December 26. Get an extra 20 per cent off when you use the code 'BEAUTY' at checkout. Whether you're looking to reduce the appearance of wrinkles or heal a disrupted skin barrier, these celebrities have just the skincare item for you. Remember, it's Beauty Week on Amazon, so now's the time to snap up a gift for a K-pop fan in your midst. Shop with a Prime membership to save up on delivery fees and still get same-day shipping.
1. Nayeon, TWICE: Biore Make-up Remover Perfect Oil If you wear make-up, a vital first step in your nighttime routine would be cleansing the face thoroughly. Girl group member Nayeon of TWICE follows the double-cleansing method like most Korean celebrities, and one cleansing oil that melts all her make-up away is the popular Biore product. This J-beauty cleansing oil doesn't emulsify when it comes in contact with water, so the formula retains the perfect consistency for breaking down waterproof mascara, eyeliner, sunscreen and more. What makes reviewers the happiest is how easily the cleanser comes off, without leaving behind any sticky or oily residue. Nayeon, then, follows it up with the viral Senka Perfect Whip foam cleanser.
2. Soobin, TXT: Manyo Factory Deep Pore Cleansing Soda Foam Those with oily skin will want a sebum-absorbing water-based cleanser in the next step of their routine. In a vlog shot by TXT member Soobin, the K-pop star was seen using ma:nyo Deep Pore Cleansing Soda Foam. Its key ingredient, green tea leaf, removes impurities and controls oil, while soda absorbs any greasiness and papaya enzymes nourish the skin. Fans of Soobin in the reviews approve of the cleanser and how a pearl-sized amount lathers up so well, meaning one tube can easily stretch for months.
3. Jeon Somi: Jungsaemmool Essential Mool Cream Looking to introduce extra hydration into the skin this winter? Opt for K-pop solo artist Jeon Somi's pick (above). Jungsaemmool's Essential Mool Cream works wonders for the star's dry skin type. She layers on a few pumps after cleansing and toning the face to lock in the moisture. With the help of squalane, ceramide, hyaluronic acid and a flower extract complex, this liquid formula brightens the complexion and strengthens the skin barrier. As you rub the lotion-like texture into the skin, it turns creamy. You're left with a dewy, glowing finish, even attested to by reviewers, who mention suffering from dry patches around the mouth.
4. Jihyo, TWICE: VANAV UP6 Skincare Device for Anti-aging and Face Lifting For some K-pop stars, vigorous application of skincare products is not enough. They take the help of beauty devices to effectively boost penetration of their cleansers, serums and creams into the skin. TWICE member Jihyo is a fan of the K-beauty Vanav UP6 tool, which she uses over a moisturising face mask before bed, gently rubbing its titanium head in tight circles on the face and the neck for at least 15 minutes. This all-in-one machine brings complete facial therapy home, with 3D vibration, galvanic ion massage and LED therapy. Move through six modes for certain steps in your routine - you can cleanse your pores over a toner with the clean-up mode or massage anti-ageing creams by lifting the skin in the lifting mode. Other modes include vitamin C and eye zone. Buyers add that they get more value for their money, as products absorb better with the tool, making their skin look tighter and plump after consistent use.
Bonus: Buy with 0% instalments and pay Dh64. 08 for 12 months with select banks.
Warranty: Amazon offers a one-year extended warranty for Dh46 and two years for Dh65.
5. Hoshi, Seventeen: The Lab By Blanc Doux Green Flavonoid 2. 5 Pad Pre-soaked toner pads are all the rage, and recommendations from Korean celebrities are far too many. Boy group member Hoshi of Seventeen revealed his personal choice of toner pads, suggested by his make-up artist. The Lab's Green Flavonoid 2. 5 Pad comes in handy when the skin is irritated and sensitive from the day's external stressors. These soothing pads use phyto-nutrients found in fruit and vegetables to quickly calm troubled areas. Leave them on for 20 minutes before bed and wake up with silky, smooth skin in the morning. Even reviewers with acne-prone skin leave five-star ratings.
6. Jaehyun, NCT: Kiehl's Calendula Herbal Extract Alcohol-Free Toner Kiehl's iconic Calendula toner was spotted in the hands of NCT member Jaehyun during a live stream. The boy group member soaked a cotton pad with a few drops and swiped it across his face, most likely to reduce oiliness, redness and blemishes. Calendula extract is a wound-healing ingredient often used in traditional Chinese medicine. It's backed by another herbal star, the soothing allantoin, and great burdock root for moisturising dry skin without adding sebum. This alcohol-free toner goes on before your thicker serums and moisturisers. Some reviewers also notice a lightening of existing blemishes.
7. Irene, Red Velvet: Clinique Moisture Surge 100H Auto-Replenishing Hydrator Seal all your products with an ultra-hydrating mask, just as girl group member Red Velvet's Irene does. It's the key to waking up with a glowing face that's ready to soak up any cosmetics you'll be applying in the day. She does this with Clinique's Moisture Surge cream, which delivers 100 hours of hydration using an aloe bioferment and hyaluronic acid complex, activated aloe water, caffeine and an antioxidant blend of vitamins C and E. The oil-free gel cream wears flawlessly no matter the season, say reviewers, helping them with a hydrated make-up base in the morning.
Our recommendations are independently chosen by Gulf News editors. If you decide to shop through links on our website, we may earn an affiliate commission, as we are part of Amazon Services LLC Associates Program.
Credit: Sahar Ejaz, Staff Writer
: Skin; Hyaluronic acid; K-pop music; Celebrities; Hydration; Flavonoids
: 7 best beauty products that are part of K-pop stars' nighttime routine, in UAE, for 2023
: Gulf News; Dubai
: 2023
: Dec 20, 2023
: Disco Digital Media, Inc.
: Dubai
/: United States, Dubai
: General Interest Periodicals--United Arab Emirates
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2903884556
URL: 
: © Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2022. All rights reserved. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).
: 2023-12-20
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Karachi Univ's professor elected as PAS Secretary of the Sindh Chapter
: The Pakistan Academy of Sciences (PAS) has elected Prof. Dr. M. Raza Shah, the senior professor at the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), the University of Karachi, unopposed as a Secretary of the Sindh Chapter of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences, says a Press release. According to the spokesman of the ICCBS, University of Karachi, PAS is devoted to promoting higher studies and research on pure and applied sciences in Pakistan and disseminating scientific knowledge. It is pertinent to mention here that only scientists of the highest merit, who have made outstanding contributions to advancing scienti?c knowledge, are elected fellows. The ICCBS, University of Karachi Director, Prof. Dr. Farzana Shaheen congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his achievement. According to the ICCBS Spokesman, Prof. Shah, working in the area of Nanomedicine and Supramolecular Chemistry, has authored six books (Elsevier) and also edited four books (Elsevier), along with 12 chapters in books and more than 460 research articles in international journals with impact factor more than 1700 with H-index 49. He has three US patents to his credit. He has supervised and co-supervised 34 PhDs. and 44 M.S/M.Phil scholars. He was declared the top scientist for the year 2019 by the government of KPK. He received the Civil Award of Tamgha-i-Imtiaz in 2015. He received the Dr. Atta-ur-Rahman gold medal in 2006 and the Dr. Raziuddin gold medal in 2015 from the Pakistan Academy of Sciences. He received the Dr. Abdus Salam (Nobel Laureate) award in chemistry. One of his authored books was declared the best book of the year 2017 by the Higher Education Commission of Pakistan. He is a fellow of various national and international academies and organizations. He led the vaccine (COVID-19) phase-1 clinical trial of Sinopharm company in Pakistan. He led the DRAP-approved clinical trial for treating COVID-19 patients with traditional Chinese medicines. On the other hand, the Vice Chancellor of the University of Karachi, Prof. Dr. Khalid Mehmood Iraqi, Prof. Dr. Atta-ur Rahman, Professor Emeritus and former Federal Minister for Science and Technology, and Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary, the Coordinator-General OIC-COMSTECH, and UNESCO CHAIR on Medicinal and Bio-Organic Natural Product Chemistry ICCBS, also congratulated Prof. Raza Shah for his achievement.
: Clinical trials; Chemistry; COVID-19
: Pakistan
/: : University of Karachi; NAICS: 611310
: Karachi Univ's professor elected as PAS Secretary of the Sindh Chapter
: The Financial Daily; Karachi
: 2023
: Dec 19, 2023
: KARACHI
: AsiaNet Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd.
: Karachi
/: Pakistan, Karachi
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2903306606
URL: 
: (c)2023 The Financial Daily
: 2023-12-19
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Vietnam/China: Vietnam - China joint statement
: Vietnam and China on December 13 issued a joint statement on continuing deepening and elevating the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership between the two countries, and building a Vietnam-China community with a shared future that carries strategic significance.
The joint statement was released on the occasion of General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping's state visit to Vietnam.
Following is the English translation of the joint statement by the Vietnam News Agency:
1. Accepting the invitation of General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam (CPV) Central Committee Nguyen Phu Trong and President of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam Vo Van Thuong, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping pays a state visit to Vietnam from December 12-13, 2023.
During the visit, General Secretary and President Xi Jinping holds talks with General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and President Vo Van Thuong, and meets with Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh, National Assembly Chairman Vuong Dinh Hue.
The two sides hold that Vietnam and China are good neighbours, good friends, good comrades, and good partners, and both are socialist countries under the leadership of a communist party, with similar political regimes, compatible ideology and belief, similar development path, shared vision, shared future, and common efforts for happy people and a wealthy and strong country and for the noble cause of peace and progress of mankind.
To inherit and promote the traditional friendship of "Vietnam-China close bonds as both comrades and brothers" and continue to deepen and further elevate the Vietnam-China Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership, the two sides agree to build a Vietnam-China Community with a Shared Future having strategic significance and exert efforts for the happiness of the two peoples and for the cause of peace and progress of mankind.
The Vietnamese side supports the building of community with shared future for mankind, the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilisation Initiative. These initiatives have the aim of protecting the common interest of the whole mankind, for the cause of peace, fairness and progressiveness of people all over the world, meeting the aspiration to build a better world of people in all countries.
The two sides reach consensus that the development of relations among states should comply with the United Nations' Charter, international law and essential norms of international relations, persist with mutual respect, equality, mutual benefits, win-win cooperation, respect for each other's sovereignty and territorial integrity, and persist with the settlement of differences through peaceful measures.
Following the above-mentioned orientations, the two sides agree to take the Vietnam-China relations to a new stage with stronger political trust, more substantial defence-security cooperation, deeper tangible collaboration, firmer social foundation, closer multilateral coordination, better management and settlement of differences, and joint efforts for boosting the development of the world socialism cause, making positive contributions to the cause of peace and progress of mankind.
2. In a friendly, straightforward atmosphere, the two sides inform each other on the situations of their respective Parties, countries, as well as the theory and reality of the building of socialism; showing delight at the great and historic achievements that each Party, country has gained during the cause of national development, modernisation and socialism building in line with each country's conditions; asserting that these fully demonstrate the vitality and superiority of the socialist regimes in Vietnam and China.
The Vietnamese side warmly congratulates the great accomplishments that the Party, Government and people of China have made during the 10-year new era as well as important achievements during the realisation of the spirit of the 20th CPC National Congress. The Vietnamese side wishes and believes that under the firm leadership of the CPC Central Committee with Comrade Xi Jinping as the nucleus, following the orientations of the Xi Jinping Thought on socialism with Chinese characteristics in the new era, the Party, Government and people of China will certainly continue to diversify and expand the path of Chinese-style modernisation, unceasingly perfect the whole-process people's democracy, strongly promote the new great project on Party building, complete on schedule all targets and tasks set at the 20th CPC National Congress, successfully implement the Second Centenary Goal, turning China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous, strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious and beautiful.
China supports and highly values achievements made by Vietnam over nearly 40 years of Doi Moi, 10 years of the implementation of the Platform on national construction during the transitional period toward socialism (supplemented and amended in 2011), especially the important and comprehensive accomplishments made since the CPV's 13th National Congress to date, which have propelled Vietnam's synergy and international influence to unprecedented heights. China wishes and believes that under the sound leadership of the CPV Central Committee led by General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong, the Party, State and people of Vietnam will certainly realise major goals and tasks set at the 13th National Congress of the CPV, build Vietnam into a socialist-oriented developed country with high income by 2045. China affirms its support for Vietnam's prosperous development, well-being of its people, building of a strong, independent and self-reliant economy, promotion of the cause of Doi Moi, industrialisation, modernisation and comprehensive international integration, development of open and friendly foreign relations, and an increasingly important role in peace, stability, development and prosperity in the region and the world.
3. The two sides look back at the development process of relations between the two Parties and countries, appreciate the invaluable and selfless support that the two Parties, countries and their people have provided for each other in various periods; unanimously agree that the traditional friendship as "both comrades and brothers" founded and nurtured by President Ho Chi Minh and President Mao Zedong and generations of leaders, is an invaluable asset of the two countries' people that needs to be inherited, well-protected, and effectively upheld. The Party, State and people of Vietnam always hold in high regard and deeply appreciate the strong support and assistance provided by the Party, State and people of China in the struggle for national liberation and independence, as well as the cause of socialism building and national development.
At the turn of the century, Vietnam and China set up the motto "friendly neighbourliness, comprehensive cooperation, long-term stability, looking toward the future and the spirit of "good neighbours, good friends, good comrades, good partners". Fifteen years since the establishment of their comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership in 2008, cooperation in various fields has made positive and comprehensive progress. Entering a new era, the Vietnam-China relationship has kept expanding and deepening, especially with Vietnamese Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong's historic visit to China at the invitation of Chinese Party General Secretary and President Xi Jinping following the CPC's 20th National Congress, which elevated Vietnam-China ties to a greater height.
Looking toward the future, China highlights its consistent policy of friendship with Vietnam, considering Vietnam a priority in its neighbourhood diplomacy. Vietnam affirms that the Vietnam-China relationship is always a top priority in its foreign policy of independence, self-reliance, multilateralisation and diversification of external ties. It is a strategic choice of both sides.
Both sides affirm their consistent support for the two Parties, countries and their people to persevere with independence in strategy and choice of development paths that suit each country's situation; be persistent in properly handling and actively resolving disagreements through peaceful means on the basis of mutual understanding, mutual respect in accordance with international law, maintaining the good development momentum of Vietnam - China relations, making more active contributions to peace, stability and development in the region and the world.
On the basis of the above common perceptions, in the context of rapid, complicated, unpredictable and unprecedented developments in the world, both sides agree to persist with political orientations of the highest Party and State leaders, looking at and developing the Vietnam-China relationship from a strategic height and long-term perspective in accordance with the "16 words" motto and the spirit of "4 goods", taking the 15th anniversary of their comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership as an opportunity to build the Vietnam-China community with a shared future of strategic importance, striving for the well-being of their people, and for the sake of peace and progress of humanity.
4. To continue deepening and elevating the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership, and firmly promoting the building of the Vietnam-China community for a shared future, both sides reach consensus to well uphold the overall coordinating role of the Vietnam-China Steering Committee for Bilateral Cooperation, actively promote cooperation in the near future, focusing on the following six major orientations, set goals, fine-tune mechanisms, roll out measures and push the implementation of:
4.1. Stronger political trust
To grasp the development orientation of the Vietnam-China relationship, both sides agree to increase strategic exchanges, persist in equal treatment and mutual respect to further consolidate political trust.
(1) Both sides vow to further enhance close exchanges between high-ranking leaders of the two Parties and countries through such forms as bilateral visits, deployment of special envoys, hotlines, exchanges of messages and letters, annual meetings and meetings at multilateral forums, engage in timely strategic discussions on important issues in bilateral ties as well as global and regional issues of shared concern, strategic orientations and directions for the stable and healthy development of ties between the two Parties and countries in the new period.
(2) Both sides agree to bring into full play the special role of the Party channel, further enhance the direction and coordination of the high-level meeting mechanism of the two Parties as well as the promotion and coordination roles of the two Parties' external relations organisations; improve the efficiency of the exchange and cooperation between the two Parties' respective agencies at the central level, Party organisations of localities, especially border provinces (regions); approve the mechanism of theoretical workshop between the two Parties and personnel training cooperation plans, promote delegation exchanges via Party channel, step up exchanges and consult each other in Party building and country management, as well as socialism building and many other fields such as organisation, information and education/popularisation, inspection and discipline enforcement, corruption prevention and combat, judicial reform, mass mobilisation/united front and socio-economy. Besides, they concur to further enhance exchanges and friendly cooperation between the Vietnamese and Chinese Governments, the National Assembly of Vietnam and the National People's Congress of China, and the Vietnam Fatherland Front and the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference.
(3) Both sides agree to effectively carry out the agreement on deepening the cooperation in the new era between the two Foreign Ministries; maintain regular meetings between leaders of the two Foreign Ministries; continue organising annual diplomatic consultation; enhance exchanges at department-level; well implement staff training plans; and support and create favourable conditions for each other to renovate headquarters and buildings of the diplomatic representative agencies of the two countries.
(4) Vietnam reaffirms its consistency in carrying out One China policy by recognising Taiwan as an inseparable part of the Chinese territory, resolutely opposing any separatist activity seeking Taiwan Independence, supporting the principle of non-interference in internal affairs of other states, and not developing any state-level relations with Taiwan. The Vietnamese side holds that the issues of Hong Kong, Xinjiang and Xizang are China's internal affairs, and expresses the belief that under the leadership of the Chinese Party and Government, the above-mentioned regions will maintain stability and prosperous development. The Chinese side supports Vietnam's efforts in maintaining social stability, ensuring national security, and promoting national solidarity.
4.2. More practical cooperation in defence - security
Defence - security cooperation, a pillar in the Vietnam - China relations, plays an important role in consolidating strategic trust between the two Parties and States. To protect their security, contributing to maintaining peace, security and stability in the region and the world, the two sides agree to strengthen cooperation mechanisms in defence, police, security, supreme court and supreme procuracy, consider building exchange mechanisms between their judicial organisations, and boost collaboration in the following key fields:
(1) Both sides agree to further enhance high-level exchanges between the two militaries; bring into play the role of cooperation channels such as border defence friendship exchange, strategic defence dialogue and hotline between the two defence ministries; effectively carry out the joint vision statement on defence cooperation until 2025 between the two defence ministries; step up exchange and cooperation between the two militaries in the fields of political work, personnel training and joint research; further strengthen cooperation in defence industry, joint exercise and training, health care, logistics, UN peace keeping activities and non-traditional security; continue intensive border cooperation by promoting joint border patrol and encouraging border stations of both sides to set up friendly relations and enhance coordination on border management and protection; and continue effective joint patrols on the Gulf of Tonkin and military ships' mutual visits as well as deepen exchange and cooperation mechanisms between the naval and coast guard forces.
(2) Both sides agree to enhance high-level exchanges between law-enforcement agencies; promote the role of such mechanisms as ministerial-level conference on crime prevention and combat, and strategic security dialogue; establish the mechanism of deputy ministerial-level dialogue on political security and a hotline between the two public security ministries; forge cooperation between the Vietnamese Ministry of Public Security and China's security and law-enforcement agencies in the fields of security, intelligence, particularly deepening cooperation in government security and regime security; bolster cooperation in traditional and non-traditional security such as prevention of terrorism and online scams, cyber security, immigration management, migration, illegal border crossings, and arrest of criminals fleeing overseas; deepening cooperation and enhance experience exchange in the fields of economic security, food security, energy, water resources, and reform and opening up; boost intelligence cooperation and share experience in the issues of anti-interference, anti-secession, prevention and fighting of "peaceful evolution" and "colour revolution" of hostile and reactionary forces; strengthen cooperation in preventing and fighting legal violations in religion and managing non-governmental organisations, promote staff training; and step up cooperation to protect the safety of organisations, businesses and citizens of one country in the other.
(3) The two sides agree to strengthen legal and judicial cooperation, creating a legal foundation for comprehensive cooperation in all fields between Vietnam and China; actively implement obligations of international treaties of which the two sides are members. The two sides effectively implement the Agreement on Mutual Legal Assistance Agreement in Civil and Criminal Matters between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the People's Republic of China, and the Extradition Agreement between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the People's Republic of China; promote the effective implementation of the Agreement on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons between the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the People's Republic of China; promote the practical outcomes of the Memorandum of Understanding on cooperation between the Vietnamese Ministry of Justice and the Chinese Ministry of Justice, jointly perfecting the mutual legal assistance mechanism; study the establishment of methods for resolving civil and border trade disputes; promote legal and judicial cooperation between localities that share the borderline in appropriate forms.
4.3. Deeper and more practical cooperation
To persist in win-win cooperation to serve the development of the two countries and promote regional and global economic recovery and sustainable growth, the two sides will strengthen their respective cooperation mechanisms in the fields of infrastructure, investment, trade, agriculture, finance and currency; study and build cooperation mechanisms between state-owned enterprises and state-invested enterprises, and transportation agencies, focusing on:
(1) Jointly building Two Corridors, One Belt, and Belt and Road
The two sides agree to promote the connection of development strategies between the two countries, well implement the Plan on cooperation in promoting connectivity between the Two Corridors, One Belt framework and the Belt and Road initiative between the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the Government of the People's Republic of China.
The two sides promote standard-gauge railway connectivity across the Vietnam - China border, study and promote the building of Lao Cai - Hanoi - Hai Phong standard-gauge railway route, study on the Dong Dang - Hanoi and Mong Cai - Ha Long - Hai Phong standard-gauge railway routes at appropriate times.
The two sides accelerate the connection and construction of border infrastructure, including the building a road bridge across the Red River in the Bat Xat (Vietnam) - Ba Sa (China) border area. The two sides encourage businesses of the two countries to cooperate in the fields of road, bridge and railway infrastructure, clean electricity, telecommunications, and logistics; continue close coordination and facilitate cooperation in road, aviation, and railway transport; and strengthen logistics cooperation.
(2) Investment
The two sides agree to effectively deploy an economic-trade cooperation zone, focusing on intensifying investment cooperation in such fields as agriculture, infrastructure, energy, digital economy, and green development. The two sides encourage and support businesses with real capacity, prestige, and advanced technologies to invest in the other country in areas suitable to the demand and sustainable development strategies of each nation and create a fair and favourable business environment for these businesses.
The two sides speed up the implementation of projects using non-refundable aid funded by the Chinese Government for Vietnam, including a project to build the second facility of the Traditional Medicine Hospital.
The two sides agree to enhance the exchange of experience in reforming state-owned enterprises and managing state capital at enterprises, cooperate in training human resources, especially high-level management human resources of state-owned enterprises; encourage state capital management agencies at enterprises of the two countries to increase contacts and connection, and create favourable conditions for enterprises of the two countries to boost mutually beneficial cooperation.
The two sides actively seek the possibility of strengthening bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the field of key minerals based on market principles and the spirit of substance and sustainability, ensuring security of energy production and supply chains.
(3) Trade
The two sides agree to apply practical measures to expand the size of bilateral trade in a balanced and sustainable direction. The two sides effectively promote the role of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), the ASEAN-China Free Trade Area (ACFTA); strengthen cooperation on platforms such as the China International Import Expo (CIIE), the China - ASEAN Expo (CAEXPO), and the China Import and Export Fair (Canton Fair); expand the export of products to each other's market. The two sides agree to enhance cooperation in the fields of standardisation, ensuring harmony of standards for goods and products of Vietnam and China, especially agricultural products, thus facilitating bilateral trade cooperation. The Chinese side will actively accelerate the market opening process for Vietnamese agricultural products such as fresh coconuts, frozen fruit products, citrus fruits, avocados, custard apples, rose-apples, medicinal herbs, buffalo meat, beef, pork, and products from cattle and poultry meat. The Vietnamese side will actively promote the import of Chinese sturgeon, increase exchanges between professional organisations of the two sides, and foster the healthy development of relevant industries of the two countries.
The two sides agree to apply effective measures to ensure smooth commodity supply chains serving the production and consumption between the two countries and in the region. Improving customs clearance efficiency, promoting the pilot building of smart border gates on the specialised freight transport routes through the area of border marker No.1088/2 - 1089 and at the Tan Thanh-Puzhai border gates (the area at border marker No.1090-1091) within the international border gates Huu Nghi (Vietnam) - Youyi Guan (China); rationally segregating the flow of goods at border gates, ensuring the smooth operations of key border gates. The two sides concur that they will promote the role of the Vietnam-China task force for trade facilitation, further exploit the potential of bilateral trade; promote the implementation of the memorandum of understanding signed between the Vietnamese Ministry of Industry and Trade and Chinese Ministry of Commerce on strengthening the Vietnam-China supply chain, ensuring the safety and stability of the two countries' production and supply chains. The two sides agree to promote the role of their joint working group for e-commerce and the engagement of Vietnamese and Chinese enterprises in e-commerce cooperation.
The two sides agree to effectively leverage the role of the mechanisms of the land border joint committee and the joint committee for Vietnam-China border gate management, continue to well implement the three legal documents on the Vietnam-China land border and related agreements; enhance the management of security and order in the border area; actively promote the opening and upgrading of border gates. Continuing to effectively implement the agreement on vessel navigation in the free navigation area at the mouth of Bac Luan River. Studying cooperation in granting mutual Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) certificates, stepping up cooperation and exchanges regarding the single-window mechanism, further deepening collaboration on anti-smuggling law enforcement, boosting the Operation Mekong Dragon to achieve even more significant results.
The Chinese side supports the opening of a Vietnamese Consulate General in Chongqing, the active roles of Vietnamese trade promotion offices in Chongqing and Hangzhou (China) in economic and trade cooperation between the two countries; is willing to further create favourable conditions for the Vietnamese side to soon open more trade promotion offices in relevant Chinese localities.
The two sides support authorities of Vietnamese and Chinese localities, particularly inland ones with relatively large economic and population scales, in establishing coordination mechanisms, holding trade-investment promotion activities together to capitalise on their potential, strengths, creating new growth drivers for economic, commercial, and trade cooperation between the two countries. Continuing to support cooperation between the two countries' railway companies to enhance the efficiency of the transit of Vietnamese goods through China.
(4) Finance, currency
The two sides agree to increase the exchange and cooperation between the State Bank of Vietnam and the Bank of China as well as between the two countries' financial supervisory and management agencies. Leveraging the role of the joint working group for finance-currency cooperation to step up monetary cooperation between the two countries. Supporting the deepening of the two sides' collaboration in the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, and the provision of assistance in terms of capital for related projects in line with the bank's strategy, policy, and procedure.
(5) Food security and green development
The two sides agree to actively promote their cooperation in agricultural techniques and agricultural policy exchange, study the implementation of joint works in such fields as low-carbon agriculture, digital agriculture, green agriculture, land and water resources protection, the promotion of green products with low-carbon emissions, and sustainable development; increase discussions and coordination on policies on ensuring food security.
The sides concur that they will actively participate in and build the global clean energy cooperation partnership. Deepening cooperation in such fields as biodiversity conservation, climate change response, new energy automobiles, which cover the management of Asian natural reserves, the protection of migratory wildlife, and the control of invasive alien species along the border region. The Chinese side welcomes Vietnam's participation in related activities of the Belt and Road Initiative International Green Development Coalition.
The two sides agree to enhance cooperation in the fields of cultivation and agricultural product processing; deploy the research cooperation for integrated management of the marine and insular environment, implement cooperation in releasing fish fries into and protecting aquatic resources in the Gulf of Tonkin. The two sides will soon sign an agreement on fishery cooperation in the Gulf of Tonkin; and well implement the Vietnam - China agreement on setting up a hotline on unexpected incidents in fishery activities at sea.
The two sides agree to exchange meteorological data in the flooding season, and implement cooperation in such fields as integrated management of water resources, prevention of natural disasters of flooding and drought, safe drinking water in rural areas, economical irrigation, and irrigation science and techniques. The two sides will hold high-level policy dialogues on the sustainable use of cross-border water resources; and enhance coordination in preventing and controlling drought and flooding and in ensuring safety for hydropower dams. The two sides increase the exchange of forecast information about meteorology, weather and dangerous weather conditions and cooperate to develop meteorological services in the Asian region.
4.4. More solid social foundation
To enhance mutual understanding and friendship, promote exchanges, mutual understanding and connections between the two nations' people, and consolidate the social foundation of the relations between the two Parties and the two countries, the two sides will enhance exchange mechanisms between the information and education/popularisation agencies of the two Parties, between key communication bodies and publishing houses, between cultural and tourism agencies, youths and localities; and study the building of cooperation mechanisms between education, health care, traditional medicine, and civil aviation agencies, with the following key cooperation areas to be promoted:
(1) Popularisation
The information and education/popularisation agencies of the two Parties will step up communications and education about the traditional friendship between the two Parties and the two countries and the Vietnam - China comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership. Encouraging the two countries to implement cooperation in communications, press publication, radio broadcasting, cinematography, and television broadcasting, and promoting mutual understanding and friendship between the two countries' people, especially younger generations.
(2) Culture and tourism
The Vietnamese side supports China to build a Cultural Centre in Vietnam; the Chinese side welcomes Vietnam's establishment of a Cultural Centre in China and properly operating the Vietnam - China Friendship Palace. The Vietnamese side actively supports the Chinese Cultural Centre in Hanoi to carry out activities.
The two sides support cultural organisations, art troupes, and cultural - art training schools of the two countries to carry out exchanges and cooperation. The two sides increase coordination and exchanges of information about tourism policies between the two countries, and coordinate to operate tourism routes and develop tourism products. The two sides well implement the Vietnam - China Plan on Cultural and Tourism Cooperation for the 2023 - 2027 period, increase the exchanges of all-level cultural and tourism delegations, and promote the recovery and healthy development of the tourism sector. The two sides safely and effectively conduct the pilot operation of the landscape site of Ban Gioc (Vietnam) - Detian (China) Waterfalls to create the basis for the official operation, and encourage tourists from both sides to visit the landscape site. The two sides support air transport businesses of the two nations to increase flights between Vietnam and China basing on the market demand.
(3) Education, sports, human resources and science - technology
The two sides agree to well implement the Vietnam - China agreement on educational cooperation; encourage the increase of exchanging students, education managers, and lecturers of the two countries; step up training in specialised knowledge and skills for Vietnamese teachers through scholarship programmes for courses in China; boost exchanges and cooperation between educational institutions of the two countries; actively bring into play the role of the Confucius Institute at the Hanoi University; and deepen cooperation in vocational training, digital education, and sports. The two sides agree to increase exchanges between universities and research institutions of the two countries.
The two sides agree to strengthen cooperation in the field of labour on the basis of effectively implementing the agreements on cross-border labour management of the two countries' border provinces/regions, thus ensuring the rights and legitimate interests of labourers in border areas of the two countries. The two sides agree to promoting the exchange and cooperation programmes on human resources and skill development, social security and social insurance to meet socio-economic development demand of both countries.
The two sides agree to continue well bringing into play the role of the Vietnam - China Joint Committee for Scientific and Technological Cooperation; actively enhance cooperation and connections in the fields of the regulations on legal management of nuclear safety, intellectual property, and quality measurement standards; and boost the exchange of delegations at all levels to deepen cooperation in the abovementioned areas.
(4) Health care and natural disaster prevention and control
The two sides agree to continue implementing cooperation and exchanges in the fields of medicine and health, including health protection and care, prevention and control of infectious diseases, traditional medicine, and natural disaster prevention and control. The two sides agree to support localities of the two countries to implement cooperation in sharing information and jointly preventing and controlling cross-border disease outbreaks.
(5) Locality-to-locality, people-to-people and youth-to-youth exchanges
Both sides agree to support the countries' localities, especially border provinces/areas, to implement exchange and cooperation activities; improve the effectiveness of periodic exchange mechanisms between Vietnamese and Chinese organisations, such as trade unions, and those of women and youths; well organise activities like Vietnam-China youth friendship meeting, Vietnam - China people's forum, border people's festival; increase exchanges between young leaders, entrepreneurs and volunteers of the two countries.
4.5. Further coordination
To protect international fairness, justice and common interests, promote peace, stability and prosperous development in the region, create an external environment beneficial to the development of each country and the Vietnam - China relations, the two sides concur to persistently uphold multilateralism, strengthen multilateral coordination and cooperation, and jointly protect the international system with the United Nations as its core and an international law-based international order.
(1) Both sides agree to intensify the consultation mechanism on human rights and policies between the two foreign ministries and non-periodic exchanges between resident representative agencies, as well as delegations/ representative offices located in third country or international organisations.
(2) The Vietnamese side welcomes a viewpoint on building a community with a shared future for mankind put forth by the Chinese side to promote common values on peace, development, fairness, justice, democracy and freedom; supports and is willing to participate in specific cooperation projects within the framework of the global development initiative in line with Vietnam's capacity, conditions and demand; jointly implements the Sustainable Development Progamme to 2030; discusses and coordinates policies, supports each other and carries out substantive cooperation within the framework of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement on climate change.
(3) The two sides affirm to abide by the United Nations Charter and international law, respect each other's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, equality, mutual benefit, efforts for peace, stability, cooperation and development. The Vietnamese side welcomes and supports the Global Security Initiative. The two sides will study the appropriate implementation of suitable cooperation within the initiative, and continue maintaining exchange and close coordination on regional and global security issues.
(4) The two sides hold that countries whose fates are closely related to each other and with different civilisations live together in tolerance, exchange to learn from each other. The Vietnamese side supports the Global Security Initiative, for peace, development, fairness, justice and progress of humankind, and is ready to study the implementation of cooperation within the initiative.
(5) Both sides advocate that countries carry out exchange and cooperation in the human rights issue on the basis of equality and mutual respect, promote the strengthening of international dialogue and cooperation in the human rights field, not to politicise the human rights issue and not to use the human rights issue to interfere in other country's internal affairs.
(6) The two sides agree to strengthen cooperation in international and regional organisations and mechanisms, such as United Nations, Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) and Asia - Europe Meeting (ASEM), and support each other to run for seats at international organisations.
(7) Both sides support ASEAN to maintain its centrality in the unceasingly evolving and changing architecture of the Asia-Pacific region. China supports ASEAN to build the ASEAN Community of solidary, unity, self-resilience and development; accelerates the construction of the version 3.0 ASEAN - China free trade area, deepen the ASEAN - China comprehensive strategic partnership.
(8) The two sides concur to boost Mekong - Lancang cooperation, strive to promote the building of a community with a shared future for peace and prosperity among Mekong-Lancang nations; foster cooperation within the Greater Mekong Subregion economic cooperation framework.
(9) Both sides agree and do their best to protect basic principles and core values of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), promote necessary reforms in WTO, especially the resumption of normal operations of the two-level, binding dispute settlement mechanism. Enhancing cooperation within the WTO framework, the two sides jointly protect legitimate rights and interests of developing members, promote WTO to play more effective role.
(10) The Vietnamese side supports China's accession to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) on the basis of conforming with standards and order of the agreement. The two sides are willing to well implement the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), and boost regional economic connectivity.
4.6. Better management and settlement of differences
The two sides engage in sincere and straightforward in-depth discussions on sea-related issues, and stress the need to better manage and actively address differences at sea, and maintain peace and stability in the East Sea and the region.
(1) The two sides agree to continue to adhere to important common perceptions between senior leaders of the two Parties and two states, persistently pursue friendly negotiations, strengthen the negotiation mechanism at the governmental level on Vietnam-China border and affiliated working groups; actively seek basic and long-term solutions acceptable by both sides, in accordance with the Vietnam-China agreement on basic principles guiding the settlement of sea-related issues, and international law, including the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS 1982).
(2) The two sides reach consensus on actively speeding up discussions on cooperation for joint development at sea, and on maritime boundary delimitation outside the mouth of the Gulf of Tonkin; towards reaching substantive progress in these two works. The two sides will continue to actively cooperate in less sensitive fields at sea. Intensifying collaboration in fishery law enforcement, and in aquaculture and protection of creature resources in the East Sea. Intensifying cooperation in search and rescue missions at sea.
(3) The two sides agree to continue to comprehensively and effectively implement the Declaration of the Conduct of Parties in the East Sea (DOC) on the basis of consultations and consensus, work to early reach a substantive and efficient Code of Conduct in the East Sea (COC) in accordance with international law, including the UNCLOS 1982. Implementing the mechanisms of senior official meetings (SOM) and the ASEAN-China Joint Working Group meetings on the implementation of the Declaration of the Conduct of Parties in the East Sea (DOC); well controlling differences at sea, avoiding acts that complicate the situation and expand disputes, and jointly maintaining stability at sea.
(4) The two sides agree to jointly mark 25 years of land boundary delimitation and 15 years of the signing of three legal documents on Vietnam-China land border in 2024.
5. The two sides agree that the state visit to Vietnam by Chinese Party General Secretary and President Xi Jinping is a success, and an important milestone in the history of the relations of the two Parties and two countries, thus contributing importantly to promoting the Vietnam-China traditional friendship, elevating the Vietnam-China relations in the new period, and promoting peace, stability and development in the region and the world.
The top leaders of the two Parties and states agree to direct relevant agencies, ministries, sectors and localities of Vietnam and China to build and complete appropriate exchange mechanisms, clearly define units responsible for implementation as well as directions of implementation on the basis of task assignment and reality, build detailed implementation plans and promptly report cooperation progress to the Vietnam-China Steering Committee for Bilateral Cooperation. The steering committee for bilateral cooperation is in charge of assessing, supervising, urging and coordinating works for the following periods, and reporting to each side's high-ranking leaders on the cooperation situation and progress. Based on their needs, the two sides discuss, connect, and review the implementation and settlement of arising issues through friendly consultations.
Party General Secretary and President Xi Jinping sincerely thanks Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong, President Vo Van Thuong, and senior leaders of the Vietnamese Party and State and the Vietnamese people for their grand, warm and friendly welcome; and respectfully invites Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and President Vo Van Thuong to soon visit China again. Party General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and President Vo Van Thuong express their thanks and accept the invitation with pleasure. - VNA
: Peace; Cooperation; Political leadership; International law; International relations; Initiatives; Political parties; Presidents; Friendship; Socialism; State visits
: : International relations; : 92111 :‎ Executive Offices 81394 :‎ Political Organizations
: Vietnam; China
: Xi Jinping; Trong, Nguyen Phu
: 92111: Executive Offices; 81394: Political Organizations
: Vietnam/China: Vietnam - China joint statement
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Dec 19, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2903022960
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Dec 19, 2023
: 2024-01-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
TIME OUT
: Emma Evans group chief executive Capi and Folk Capital
How did you get into yoga and how long have you been practising it?I got into yoga around eight years ago. I was seeing a traditional Chinese medicine doctor as I was simply exhausted and it was leading to some health issues, and I found out I needed to balance my nervous system. I went from six functional or high-intensity training classes a week to none and took up yoga at a local studio. Seeing the benefit to my mind and body only made me want to dive deeper. Yoga led me to meditation, which led me to breathwork.
Kind of yoga? Mostly Vinyasa or Yin, but I love it all. I lean toward the more slow-paced style of classes these days, and the physical element is a benefit but not my driving force. When I practise, I tune in to what my mind and body need - some days a strong, physical class, other days a slow and still class, sometimes just sitting and breathing.
Do you go to a class or do it at home, and how often do you practise? Pre-pandemic and pre-baby I would go to classes around five times a week, but during the pandemic I did my 200-hour yoga teacher training online with Creature Yoga out of Byron Bay, as well as some breathwork and meditation courses. That study really set me up to find ways to integrate my practice into my life after I had my daughter in March this year. I will listen to meditations when I am breastfeeding or going out for a walk, or put her on a playmat and spend five to 10 minutes doing some yoga next to her. I have had to learn to practise without the structure of a set class.
Do you have a guru or favourite teacher? Many favourite teachers, from Nicky Grimsdale on the Sunshine Coast, to Tina Tainui, Ryan Mannix and Amy Carmody in Melbourne. Each brings something different to the practice: Tina has been amazing at sharing wisdom from her time in India and Amy's online platform was so helpful for my postpartum journey back to yoga.
Do you feel different now compared with when you started? Definitely. At the start it was more about being calm and learning poses. Now it's so much more about getting centred, moving energy, getting lost in the practice and serving what I need at that moment. The other day I went to my first studio class in almost two years and noticed an increase in my mind-body awareness. In a room of 40 people, it felt like I was the only one there.
Favourite pose? I love Warrior Two. It feels strong yet you can ease into it nicely.
Least favourite pose? Shoulder stand. Just doesn't work for me and my body.
Are there poses you just can't manage? I went into my 200-hour training hoping to learn headstands and handstands and quickly let that go. For now I am OK without them. There is so much more to the practice.
What about the spiritual aspects of yoga? It has evolved for me over time through training, retreats and meeting new teachers. Tapping into an essence and embracing the practice can be transformative. So much of what I have learnt on the yoga mat carries over into my life at home and at work. I have also loved learning about breathwork and meditation, which I bring to my teams and the office as tools for us to learn about and work on.
Most memorable yoga experience? Probably a retreat in February 2022 at Soma in Byron Bay. We did five hours of rounding, which felt daunting at the time. Rounding is a specific sequence of gentle yoga asanas, pranayama breathing and meditation. I got totally lost in it and time just went by. It was immersive, challenging and transformative all in one. The internal stillness at the end was really profound.
Most exotic place you've done yoga? A hilltop in Koh Samui in Thailand overlooking the ocean while on retreat. It was also a private class - just the two of us in this vast space.
Tips to become a better yogi? Never stop learning, try new things, try the classes you don't think you will like, there will be something to learn in there - and something magical.
Place you would most like to do yoga? I would love to make it to India to practise.
Favourite yoga gear? Lululemon - I want my tights to stay snug and stay up - or Nagnata.
Anything about yoga you don't like? There can be assumptions and stigmas, but I think that's true of anything. I can be a chief executive and a yogi and don't need to be put in a box for who I am, or what I do or embody.
Love most about it? The connection to self it provides every time I step on the mat. L&L
lifeandleisure@afr.com
CREDIT:
: Meditation; Yoga; Learning; Teachers; Pandemics
: India
: TIME OUT
: The Australian Financial Review; Melbourne
: 5
: 2023
: Dec 15, 2023
: Life & Leisure
: Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
: Melbourne
/: Australia, Melbourne
: Business And Economics--Public Finance, Taxation
ISSN: 04042018
e-ISSN: 14449900
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2901427495
URL: 
: Copyright (c) 2023 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. www.afr.com. Not available for re-distribution.
: 2023-12-14
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
I've been living in Hanoi for over 10 years, and I think the Michelin Guide missed the city's 5 best street food spots
: Zukas, Joshua. 
: - The first Michelin Guide to Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City was launched in June.
- The list includes street food, but it only features established spots serving well-known dishes like phở.
- These five street food experiences in Hanoi should have made it onto the list.
When the Michelin Guide to Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City dropped earlier this year, they really stirred the pot. Exasperated netizens took to social media and ruthlessly criticized the list, with a lot of anger targeted at the street food recommendations. "It's a scam," a food blogger friend told me. "Michelin wanted to create controversy," said another. "It's how they get the spotlight." Both friends wished to remain anonymous.
When I asked locals about the Michelin street food recommendations in Hanoi on the record, their words were more measured.
"The list is pretty predictable," said Văn Công Tú, who has led street food tours featured by news agencies such as The Guardian, The New York Times, and CNN since 2008. "It includes many of the street food vendors who already had a level of fame in Hanoi, places that have been on online lists and in guidebooks for a long time."
"Michelin were not wrong when they chose places that have been around for generations," countered Trương Quang Dũng, chef patron at Chapter and Habakuk, two restaurants featured in the guide — neither of which are street food. But Trương expressed disappointment that the Vietnam guide failed to uncover lesser-known spots. "Actually, some of the most interesting street food in Hanoi is not in the guide," he told me.
I agree.
When selecting establishments, inspectors at the Michelin Guide consider five criteria: ingredient quality, mastery of flavor, harmony of flavors, chef personality, and consistency. The focus is, understandably, on food.
As a travel writer based in Vietnam for over 10 years, I strive to recommend spots offering a unique dining experience — not just good grub. I take the food into account, but I also consider the atmosphere, the setting, the location, the story behind the establishment, and the uniqueness of the experience. With that in mind, here are my top street food spots in Hanoi.
1. Fish noodle soup in an alleyway next to a shrine
Embedded in an alleyway, Bún Cá Sâm Cây Si has specialized in bún cá — a dish that didn't even get mentioned in the Michelin Guide — for more than 20 years. Bún cá is fish soup with rice vermicelli noodles and topped with deep-fried fish, dill, spring onions, and other greens. Order it here with a side of nem cá, a kind of fried fish cake.
The hearty broth, crunchy fish cake, and animated alleyway are reason enough to eat here, but the bigger draw might be the setting. Next to Bún Cá Sâm Cây Si is a shrine to venerate the goddess Bà Đông Cuông, who neighborhood residents believe inhabits the adjacent tree. The family running the street kitchen live behind the shrine, and trust that if they continue its upkeep, the goddess will bless their business.
Address: Ngõ Trung Yên, Hoàn Kiếm
Opening Times: 8 a.m. – 5 p.m.
2. Bowl of phở in a family's bedroom
Squeeze through an alleyway between two souvenir stores, climb a flight of stairs, and squat on tiny plastic chairs before tucking into a bowl of phở bò — beef noodle soup. Like all classic Hanoi phở, the broth is clear and austere, but boils away for most of the day to develop depth. On a good day the broth arrives perfectly seasoned, but there's pickled garlic and chili sauce to add a bit of kick.
This eatery existed for more than two decades on the street, but the family moved the business into their home during one of the government's routine crackdowns on sidewalk street food, which is technically illegal. The dining room doubles as the family's bedroom, living room, and space for the festooned family altar, offering a rare glimpse of what it's like to live in the Old Quarter.
Address: 5 Hàng Trống, Hoàn Kiếm
Opening Times: 3 p.m. (sometimes 4 p.m.) until they sell out (usually around 7 p.m.)
3. Flat rice noodles near two of Hanoi's most storied streets
Many visitors leave Vietnam thinking that phở is noodle soup, when the word actually refers to a repertoire of dishes. One is phở trộn, a broth-less bowl of flat rice noodles topped with meat, deep-fried shallots, peanuts, greens, and a sweetened fish sauce. Dine on the chicken version of this dish, which isn't featured in the Michelin Guide, at Phở Hạnh.
Phở Hạnh is near the corner of two of Hanoi's most storied streets: Thuốc Bắc and Lãn Ông. Thuốc Bắc means "northern (or Chinese) medicine" and Lãn Ông means "lazy old man," named after a sluggish but prodigal 18th-century doctor who lived and practiced in the area. These are some of the only streets in Hanoi's Old Quarter that still sell the type of products that the streets were originally named after. As you slurp up noodles, the scents of medicinal herbs and spices flavor the air.
Address: 65 Lãn Ông, Hoàn Kiếm
Opening Times: Around 6 p.m. until they sell out (usually around 11 p.m.)
4. Rice paper rolls with minced pork prepared live
The Old Quarter is the focal point of street food in Hanoi, but that shouldn't prevent more intrepid exploration. North of the Old Quarter, Bánh Cuốn Nóng Hồ Tây serves bánh cuốn, steamed wet rice paper rolls with minced pork and mushroom. As a side you can order an egg, also rolled in wet rice paper, and some chả, a kind of sausage infused with cinnamon or young green sticky rice.
Part of the fun of eating bánh cuốn is watching the chef pour the rice batter into the large cloth steamer pot and then rolling the rice pancake into delicate parcels. Not only is this place tastier than in the restaurant recommended in the Michelin Guide — in my humble opinion — but here you can sit at the same table as the women, who say they've been making bánh cuốn for 40 years, and watch as they assemble the dish.
After breakfast, cross the road to Duy Trí (43 Yên Phụ), a traditional coffee shop in a tube house that has been around for almost a century.
Address: 34 Yên Phụ, Tây Hồ
Opening Times: From 6.30 a.m. until lunchtime
5. Glass noodles with goose near the railway tracks
Yet another dish ignored by the Michelin Guide, miến ngan is glass noodles with goose, usually served in a rich, pungent broth flavored with bamboo. If a noodle soup doesn't appeal, order miến ngan trộn and the broth will arrive on the side.
Aside from serving some of the best miến ngan in town, Nhà Hàng Thanh's appeal lies in its proximity to the railway tracks. If the guard blocks entry to the infamous Hanoi Train Street or the experience feels like a tourist trap (which it is fast becoming), settle down here for dinner instead. You can still watch Hanoi grind to a halt when the train rumbles past at 7 p.m., 7.45 p.m., and 8.30 p.m. daily.
Address: 3 Trần Phú, Hoàn Kiếm
Opening Times: All day and into the night
: Chefs; Food
: Vietnam
/: : Michelin Guide; NAICS: 513120
: I've been living in Hanoi for over 10 years, and I think the Michelin Guide missed the city's 5 best street food spots
: Zukas, Joshua
: Business Insider, US edition; New York
: 2023
: Dec 11, 2023
: Food; Travel
: Insider, Inc.
: New York
/: United States, New York
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--United States
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2900119640
URL: 
: Copyright Insider, Inc. Dec 11, 2023
: 2023-12-11
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Vietnam-China: Vietnamese, Chinese firms seal 21 deals across sectors
: Vietnamese firms and their Chinese peers inked 21 agreements and economic contracts in agro-forestry-fishery import and export, trade, logistics, and high-tech agriculture at a November 30 business networking forum held in the northern coastal province of Quang Ninh.
Vietnamese firms and their Chinese peers sign 21 agreements and economic contracts at a November 30 business networking forum held in the northern coastal province of Quang Ninh.
The forum took place as part of the ongoing 15th Vietnam-China tourism and trade fair in Mong Cai city. It was held to enable managers, policy planners, and businesses from both countries to exchange information, identify difficulties and challenges, and propose measures to promote their trade of agro- forestry-fishery products.
Opening the forum, Le Thanh Hoa, Deputy Director of the Department of Quality, Processing, and Market Development under the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, stated that China is the largest export market for Vietnam's agro- forestry-fishery goods, especially farm produce, fruit, and seafood.
However, these products have yet to deeply penetrate the domestic Chinese market and connect with large corporations, modern distribution channels, online sales networks, and large supermarkets in China.
Fu Zhenghua, deputy head of the municipal Party Committee office of China's Fangchenggang port city, said both sides need to actively implement standardised management of imported and exported goods and promote their linkage of standards related to quality, packaging, labeling, food safety, and source traceability. Efforts should be made to add more products such as frozen seafood, jellyfish, pharmaceuticals, and traditional medicines to their trading list. - VOV
: Business networking; Seafood; Fisheries
: : Business networking Fisheries; : 11411 :‎ Fishing
: China; Vietnam
: 11411: Fishing
: Vietnam-China: Vietnamese, Chinese firms seal 21 deals across sectors
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Dec 11, 2023
: Business News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2900099646
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Dec 11, 2023
: 2023-12-10
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Chinese Taipei (Taiwan): From ER doc to wild-card presidential candidate: Taiwan's Ko Wen-je
: Just 10 years after trading his white coat for a place on the mayoral hustings, Taipei Mayor Ko Wen-je, who also heads the four-year-old Taiwan People's Party, is looking increasingly like a potential challenger to Vice President Lai Ching-te in January's presidential election.
A recent poll of voters by the Taiwanese Public Opinion Foundation showed Ko has an approval rating of 31.9% compared with 29.2% percent for the ruling Democratic Progressive Party's Lai and 23.6% for nationalist Kuomintang candidate and New Taipei City mayor Hou Yu-ih.
Earlier polls had shown a healthy lead for Lai and running mate Hsiao Bi-khim, with Ko trailing in third place after plans for a joint Ko-Hou ticket foundered.
The foundation described Ko as "a terrible nightmare that the DPP must not ignore," adding that Ko's support is highest among well-heeled white-collar workers, but that he also has similar appeal to Lai among blue-collar voters.
Far from boosting the Lai campaign, the recent collapse of talks between Lai and Hou over a possible "blue-white" joint ticket actually appears to have damaged it, boosting Ko's approval rating by 6.3 percentage points and leaving Lai's half a percentage point lower, the foundation said.
With less than 50 days of campaigning left to go before the Jan. 13 election, the result suggests Ko is a wild card candidate who could sway the result in unpredictable ways, the poll of 755 people with a 3.57 percentage-point margin of error and a 95% confidence level found.
"This is likely to be the most unpredictable of all presidential elections so far," the foundation said. "We won't know who the winner is until it's over."
Pithy soundbites
Ko, a former emergency room doctor who gave up medicine for politics 10 years ago, has generally sought to position himself as an outsider capable of toppling the traditional parties.
He has become known for his salty epithets and pithy soundbites, appealing to a broad cross-section of the island's 23 million population, particularly younger voters.
Yet his critics accuse him of dictatorial leanings, an emperor-complex, a too-relaxed attitude to the threat from China, and of flip-flopping on key elements of his political stance to please whoever happens to be listening at the time.
Ko has described the 1992 consensus between Beijing and the former Kuomintang government that sought to preserve Taiwan's de facto independence while never challenging China's territorial claim on the island as "basically getting down on their knees and surrendering."
"Failure is the norm - success is the exception," is another Ko-ism, as is his description of politics as "the search for a lost conscience."
Organ transplant doctor
Ko, 64, who has claimed an IQ of 157, has a fondness for medical metaphors on the campaign trail, and once referred to an opponent as "less capable than an amoeba."
Born in Hsinchu, Ko began his working life as an emergency and intensive care physician at National Taiwan University Hospital, studying organ transplants in the United States before setting up a transplant team at his hospital, and significantly improving survival rates with his use of ECMO machines.
He quit medicine after an organ was mistakenly transplanted into a patient from an HIV-positive donor, announcing he would run for Taipei mayor in 2014, eventually winning the election with the second highest number of votes ever received.
According to veteran journalist Kang Jen-chun, Ko projects a professional, scientific and rational image, along with pragmatism and a sense of openness and transparency.
"A large proportion of Taiwanese are very eager to find something outside of the [traditional] blue and green [camps]," Kang said. "Voters want politicians to take more action - stuff that is closer to their lives."
"Ko Wen-je's seemingly nonsensical comments and jokey approach have gotten young people's attention."
Lawmaker Tsai Pi-ru, a nurse at Ko's hospital who later became his chief of staff in the Taipei municipal government, said: "He doesn't beat around the bush ... and if he says something wrong, he apologizes - the only person in Taiwan politics who does that."
"He apologizes, seeks to do better, and moves on," she said, adding that Ko also has a reputation for straight-dealing, and for a formidable work ethic that sees him taking the bus to work at city hall, starting his day at 7.30 a.m., before hosting a lunch party every day at noon.
He also has a reputation for dismantling bottlenecks in the city's infrastructure in record time, as well as making off-the-cuff, sometimes shocking comments to journalists as he goes about his day.
Kang said this gives him a distinct advantage over Lai and Hou when it comes to the electoral "dog-fights" in Taiwan's media, although his sharp tongue and whimsical remarks can sometimes get him into trouble.
When taken to task in the past, Ko has referred to himself as "a mortal, describing his life as a one-way street with no regrets.
Nonetheless, by the time he fought his next mayoral election in 2018, his approval rating had plummeted from to 40% after three years in office, and he only defeated his opponent Ting Shou-chung by a narrow margin of some 3,000 votes.
Bully and schemer?
His New People's Party has been hemorrhaging political support, as his critics accuse him of being a bully and a schemer.
"His neutrality is a kind of nihilism that blows with the zeitgeist," Ed Lin, lead singer of Taiwan rock band Leather Lattice, wrote of Ko in a June 2023 article titled "Three Beautiful Misunderstandings of Ko Wen-je."
"He's good at dodging controversy and bullying the weak," Lin wrote. "The truth is that he is deeply rooted in patriarchal ideas and vote-counting schemes."
He said Ko stands for a restoration of authoritarian rule "that undermines democracy."
A former Taiwan People's Party activist who asked to be identified only as A, had a similar view.
"The biggest issue is Ko's dictatorial personality," A said. "His idols include Mao Zedong and the Yongzheng Emperor [1722-35]."
"He often refers to himself with the royal 'we', as if he's the emperor," A said, adding that Ko favors divide and rule politics and "palace intrigue."
Ko also gives favorable treatment to his family members within the party, A said, describing them as "nobles of the court," while everyone else is expected to be "fans and believers."
Fascination with Mao
Ko had admitted to a fascination with Mao, and has visited Communist Party sites on a trip to China to learn about party history. He has been photographed by the media gazing at a portrait of Chairman Mao as a young man.
Ko has also raised eyebrows with his parroting of Beijing's claim that the people of Taiwan and China are "part of the same family," which it uses to underscore its territorial claim on the island.
"His emergence is very bad for democracy in Taiwan," A said. "It will set its development back for a long time."
Yeh, the office worker, said he doesn't trust Ko either.
"There's no problem with his intelligence," Yeh said. "But he lacks presidential gravitas, and his words don't mean anything - a president should keep their word."
"But I'm worried that he will be willing to trade it away in any future negotiations with [China]," he said.
Even as a doctor, Ko was no stranger to politics.
A staunch supporter of late former Democratic Progressive Party President Chen Shui-bian, he formed part of a committee that advocated for Chen's release on medical parole as he served his prison sentence for corruption.
But he later changed his tune, claiming in 2017 that Chen's illness "was feigned from the start," as he campaigned for opposition Kuomintang voters in his campaign for re-election as Taipei mayor.
Ko's grandfather died in the Feb. 28, 1947, massacre of Taiwanese civilians by Kuomintang troops, an event that - much like the 1989 Tiananmen massacre - still carries a huge political and emotional weight in contemporary Taiwanese politics.
But asked to clarify whether he blamed former supreme leader Chiang Kai-shek for the killings, Ko evaded the question, saying he had suffered as much "persecution" by the Democratic Progressive Party, which emerged from the dissident movement that was the legacy of Kuomintang repression.
The island's pro-democracy movement - known as the Tangwai - started to fight elections against the ruling Kuomintang in the 1970s and 1980s, largely inspired by the 1947 bloodshed and subsequent "white terror" campaigns by the secret police.
Ko supported the 2014 student-led Sunflower Movement that campaigned against a trade deal providing for ever-closer ties with China, and has gone on record as likening the Kuomintang, who signed it, to "cockroaches."
Yet he also sat down at the negotiating table with former Kuomintang President Ma Ying-jeou, who was accused of undermining the island's current government on a recent trip to China, in a failed bid to form a "blue-white alliance" to fight the January elections.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Emergency medical care; Polls & surveys; Local elections; Transplants & implants; Politics; Hospitals; Mayors; Presidential elections; Democracy; Voters; Massacres
: : Hospitals; : 92111 :‎ Executive Offices 62211 :‎ General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: Beijing China; China; Taiwan
: Mao Zedong (1893-1976); Ko Wen-je
/: : Taiwan Peoples Party; NAICS: 813940
: 92111: Executive Offices; 62211: General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: Chinese Taipei (Taiwan): From ER doc to wild-card presidential candidate: Taiwan's Ko Wen-je
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Dec 6, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2897582973
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Dec 6, 2023
: 2023-12-05
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Mudo Labs' innovative Beem paves way to better mood management
: Corinne. 
: THERE IS MUCH POWER TO a scent.
It is the strongest and fastest memory inducer, with great capacity to trigger emotions. Yet, most of us only ever apply a fragrance at the start of the day. And arguably, its use is as much targeted at others' perception of you as it is for yourself -- you wear a scent to reflect your personality, leave a certain impression, or even become more desirable.
But what about your own mood? What happens when you leave home feeling perky in the morning but need a lift in the middle of the day? Often, we also yearn to unwind after a stressful or anxiety-inducing experience.
Clearly, there exists an opportunity to harness aromachology, or the science of scents, in an intelligent way, so we can benefit from managing our mood experiences.
And finally, one Singapore company has done exactly that.
Blending science and ancient wisdom By putting resources into understanding natural scents and ancient healing techniques, Mudo Labs has created The Beem -- a revolutionary, pocket-sized product holding a cartridge of scent compounds that aims to carve out a new market segment in the well-being sector.
Headed by chief executive officer Sophian Abdul Rahman, the company first started gathering information on Asian botanicals over five years ago in a quest to create new rituals for balancing moods. Mudo Labs leverages botanicals traditionally used in Asia's long and established wellness practices for novel purposes -- specifically, to facilitate positive mood changes using these natural ingredients in innovative ways.
After all, aromachology has been recognised for its multiple health benefits, including immune system enhancement, as well as mood lifting and calming effects. Clinical studies on the effects of aromatherapy have also consistently shown that it can alleviate stress and improve sleep quality, offering users an evidence-based approach to enhancing their well-being.
"We are constantly tired, stressed and overwhelmed by society's ever-increasing demands," says Sophian, pointing to the need for functional, meaningful and convenient products designed to enhance one's sense of well-being. "Through our science-based approach, Mudo Labs intends to create a safe space for all of us to decide how we would like to feel."
By fusing ancient wisdom and modern science, Mudo Labs' network of scientists, psychologists, researchers and industrial designers, sought to evaluate the mood-elevating properties of various botanicals through research, lab tests and experiments.
Its efforts led to proprietary blends formulated with aromatherapists and perfumers, using all-natural ingredients validated to ensure safety and efficacy for an individual's moods.
On top of scent, there is also the opportunity to put Traditional Chinese Medicine doctrines to good use. With research suggesting that acupoint stimulation may produce mood-switching activity, The Beem astutely combines acupressure principles with aromachology.
The Beem is it First, an introduction to The Beem.
Sleek, discreet and carrying a nice weight in your hand, The Beem is a simple, yet clever product that fuses industrial design, science and acupressure principles to offer different mood experiences using interchangeable scent cartridges.
The starter kit (S$88) comprises a pen-shaped device that measures 12.6 cm by 1.8 cm, and features a stainless steel cover in four colourways (black, rose, silver and gold), a polyurethane body and an aluminium cartridge.
Experiencing its benefits is easy.
Simply use The Beem to apply pressure on your Cupid's bow -- also known as the GV26 point, an emergency and revival acupoint just above the middle of the upper lip -- and inhale the chosen essential oil blend deeply.
The device could be the answer for those seeking natural alternatives to not only improve their well-being, but also switch up their moods and master their moment.
Pick your mood experience Mudo Labs offers six moods represented by colour-coded cartridges (S$15 each). Each contains a blend of all-natural, non-synthetic "mood herbs" that correlates with the mood it is designed to evoke.
The cartridges carry no artificial fragrances and colouring, alcohol, parabens, menthol or camphor. The pure essential oils used in the brand's proprietary blends are also responsibly sourced.
The six moods available are:
Sophian says Singapore was chosen as the launchpad for The Beem as Singaporeans are keenly attuned to global trends and express a strong desire to set -- rather than follow -- them. The Beem will be launching in more markets in time to come, he adds.
"We founded Mudo Labs to be a global company with a mission to help anyone regain their mood equilibrium naturally and easily," he explains. "Singapore is just our first step."
The Beem is available at mudolabs.com and Mudo Labs' pop-up store at #01-K108/K109, Great World
: Acupressure; Science; Emotions; Industrial design
: : Industrial design; : 54142 :‎ Industrial Design Services
: Singapore
: 54142: Industrial Design Services
: Mudo Labs' innovative Beem paves way to better mood management
: Corinne
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: Dec 1, 2023
: SPECIAL FEATURE
: Supplement 1
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2895677102
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-12-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Chinese Ambassador to the UK Zheng Zeguang Attends the Second OMFIF China-UK Forum and Delivers a Keynote Speech
: On 22 November 2023, the second China-UK Forum hosted by the Official Monetary and Financial Institutions Forum (OMFIF) was held in London. H.E. Ambassador Zheng Zeguang attended the opening ceremony of the forum at invitation and delivered a keynote speech titled "Building Better Bridges for Mutually Beneficial Cooperation."The full text of the address is as follows:
Distinguished guests,
Ladies and gentlemen,
Friends,
It gives me great pleasure to attend today's forum. Thank you to Chairman Marsh for the kind invitation. On behalf of the Chinese Embassy in the UK, I would like to extend congratulations on the holding of this forum and gratitude to friends from all sectors who have long supported the development of China-UK relations.
The theme of today's forum Building Bridges could not be more fitting. In today's world full of turmoil and change and with rising instability and uncertainties, it is all the more imperative for China and the UK as well as other countries to build bridges for cooperation, broaden roads for mutual benefit and work together to respond to challenges and advance peace and development.
It has been a Chinese traditional virtue to focus on self-cultivation in hard times and bring prosperity to all after achieving success. Starting with running our own affairs well, we have all along been building bridges for communication and cooperation, with the purpose to promote world peace and development.
This year, despite a complicated and daunting external environment, we have been advancing Chinese modernisation and pursuing high-quality development. Our economy has been steadily recovering and turning for the better.
In the first three quarters of this year, China's GDP grew by 5.2% year-on-year. In the first 10 months, the total retail sales of consumer goods increased by 6.9%, and industrial added value grew by 4.1%. China's economic growth is now higher value-added and greener.
New energy vehicles, lithium-ion batteries and photovoltaic products have become the new name cards of Chinese exports, and the total exports of these products in the first three quarters expanded by 41.7%. The IMF has just raised China's economic forecast for 2023 to 5.4%, and China is projected to generate about one third of global growth this year.
China remains committed to advancing high-standard opening up. We have announced the removal of all restrictive measures on foreign investment in manufacturing. The sixth China International Import Expo (CIIE) was held recently, attracting over 3,400 companies from various countries. And tomorrow, the second Global Digital Trade Expo will be held.
We are applying high standards to the implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement (RCEP). We are also working to align with the economic and trade rules of the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) and the Digital Economy Partnership Agreement (DEPA), and expand a globally-oriented network of high-standard free trade areas.
This year marks the 10th anniversary of the Belt and Road Initiative proposed by President Xi Jinping. Last month, we hosted the third Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation. Over 10,000 participants from 151 countries and 41 international organisations joined the forum, with 458 deliverables achieved and over 97 billion US dollars worth of business agreements signed.
At the forum, President Xi announced eight major steps China will take to support the joint pursuit of high-quality Belt and Road cooperation. This has opened a new chapter for the initiative and will inject strong impetus into global connectivity, development and prosperity.
Since the beginning of this year, Western media has painted a grim picture of China's development prospects, going as far as to say that China's development has been reversed. But facts speak louder than words. The reality is China's economy has not only ranked among the top of major economies this year, but also enjoys more prominent strengths for the medium to long term:
- a socialist market economy in systemic terms,
- a supersize market in terms of demand,
- a full-fledged industrial system in terms of supply, and
- abundant, high-caliber labour forces and entrepreneurs in terms of human resources.
China's economic development is self-generative, resilient and has many potentials. The overall Chinese economy remains promising, and it will remain so in the long run.
Ladies and gentlemen,
Development requires a peaceful and sound external environment. That is why China has all along stood on the side of peace and justice, all along pursued friendship and cooperation with all countries, and all along played a constructive role in the settlement of regional and international hotspot issues. Be it the lingering Ukraine crisis or the recently resurgent Palestinian-Israeli conflict, China has always been promoting talks for peace and a political settlement of the issues.
A few days ago, President Xi Jinping and President Joe Biden met in San Francisco. This meeting was significant for enhancing trust, removing suspicion, managing differences and expanding cooperation between China and the United States. It pointed the way for the growth of China-US relations and injected stability into a volatile and changing world. It is hoped that the US will work with China in good faith to implement the important consensus reached by the two presidents, so as to take China-US relations back to the track of healthy and steady development.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of the comprehensive strategic partnership between China and the EU. Since last year, the two sides have maintained frequent exchanges in the forms of mutual visits and virtual meetings and witnessed new progress in their practical cooperation. The steady development of China-Europe relations have brought enormous benefits to both sides and provided positive energy for world peace and development.
Ladies and gentlemen,
China-UK relations are consequential, and cooperation only brings benefits to both and to the world. In the past, the UK led Western countries in developing relations with China and served as an important bridge for exchanges between China and the West. Regrettably, over the past few years, the UK is no longer so much as such a bridge.
I mention this with many British friends, and I know they are reflecting on how to reverse this trend. In my opinion, we need to do the following:
First, we need to develop the right perspective. One has to accept the basic fact that China is not a challenge to the UK, still less a threat. The 50 odd years of diplomatic relations has shown that China's development means opportunities for the UK. The UK's challenges, be it low productivity or slow growth, high inflation or high cost of living, none of those is caused by China. Militarily, the UK's threats do not come from China either. China regards the UK as a cooperation partner. Treating China as a challenge or even threat is not the right prescription and it is fundamentally wrong.
As for those who clamour for de-risking or decoupling from China, they are misleading the people here in the UK and are definitely not doing this country any favour. After all, decoupling from the Chinese market means missing out on opportunities.
Second, we need to respect each other. China and the UK have different histories, cultures and social systems. There are bound to be differences and disagreements between the two countries on certain issues. For the relations to grow smoothly, both sides must respect each other's social system and development path and respect each other's sovereignty, security, and development interests. China does not seek to change the UK's social system. Likewise, the UK should not harbour any unrealistic hope to change China. Issues related to Taiwan, Hong Kong, Xinjiang, and Tibet are China's internal affairs, and we firmly oppose any interference in our internal affairs from any country.
On the basis of respecting each other's core interests and major concerns, we have every possibility to narrow differences, expand common understandings and increase mutual trust through dialogue based on equality.
Third, we need to pursue mutually beneficial cooperation. Dialogue and cooperation should be the keynote of bilateral ties. There is great complementarity and strong cooperation potential between our economies. I am delighted to note that China-UK bilateral trade in goods exceeded 100 billion US dollars for two consecutive years, and two-way investment stock has surpassed 50 billion US dollars. The UK was a guest of honour country at the 2023 China International Fair for Trade in Services (CIFTIS), and 55 UK companies took part in the sixth CIIE in Shanghai.
Our two countries can enhance mutually beneficial cooperation in extensive areas such as finance, trade, investment, new energy, bio-medicine, and digital economy. In particular, China has strong manufacturing and innovation capabilities in the field of new energy. Cooperation with China will help the UK achieve its 2050 net zero target. Chinese and British companies can also explore more cooperation in third markets.
To make it clear, any move to abuse national security legislation and deliberately target Chinese companies will only affect their confidence in investing in the UK. The two countries must work together to create a fair, just and non-discriminatory business environment for Chinese and British companies to have mutually beneficial cooperation.
Fourth, we need to join hands in tackling challenges. As permanent members of the UN Security Council, countries with important global influence and G20 members, China and the UK should enhance communication and coordination on climate change, global AI governance, and regional and international hotspots.
President Xi has proposed the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, and the Global Civilisation Initiative. We welcome all countries, including the UK, to participate in these initiatives and jointly contribute to world peace, stability and development.
Ladies and gentlemen,
The world has entered a new period of turbulence and transformation, presenting unprecedented opportunities and challenges. The UK will have the general election next year. At a time like this, more than ever, people with insight from all sectors in both countries, especially the business community, must proceed with confidence and be down to earth, build better bridges for mutually beneficial cooperation, so as to deepen mutual understanding and friendship between our two peoples, and lay a more solid foundation for the steady and sustained growth of China-UK relations.
I wish today's forum a full success.
Thank you.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: Investments; Peace; Cooperation; Diplomatic & consular services; Roads & highways; Digital economy; Presidents; Economic growth; International relations-US; Partnership agreements
: : Digital economy Economic growth Partnership agreements; : 92111 :‎ Executive Offices 92812 :‎ International Affairs
: United States--US; United Kingdom--UK; China
: Xi Jinping
: 92111: Executive Offices; 92812: International Affairs
: China: Chinese Ambassador to the UK Zheng Zeguang Attends the Second OMFIF China-UK Forum and Delivers a Keynote Speech
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Dec 1, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals-- Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2895421929
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Dec 1, 2023
: 2023-11-30
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
European Union/China: Why the EU is so worried about China's anti-espionage law
: Valdis Dombrovskis, the European Commission's executive vice president in charge of trade relations, described the legislation during his trip to China in late September as a "great concern to our business community" whose "ambiguity allows too much room for interpretation" and "significantly decreases" investors' confidence.
"This is exactly what I mean by a lose-lose outcome," Dombrovskis said.
What exactly makes the law so troubling for Europeans?
Introduced for the first time in 2014, the bill is intended to "prevent, frustrate and punish" acts of espionage. Its provisions grant the country's central authorities a broad mandate to crack down on activities that are perceived to be a threat against the "national security, honour and interests".
The law added to the intricate machinery the Chinese Communist Party has at its disposal to exert control over citizens, companies and organisations. This control has deepened under the rule of President Xi Jinping, who has remodelled the relation between state and party to centralise power in his persona.
Xi's pursuit for supreme authority has triggered a fraught standoff with Western countries. The Chinese leader has accused G7 allies, particularly the United States, of trying to derail the country's ambition to become a global leader in technology and innovation. Meanwhile, liberal democracies believe Xi is attempting to dismantle the rules-based order established at the end of World War II and impose an alternative system made in China's image and likeness.
Under this atmosphere of suspicion and mistrust, the Communist Party has unveiled a string of legal and policy instruments to make sure all aspects of Chinese society, even those taking place abroad, are under an omnipresent oversight of sorts.
This push led to the revision of the anti-espionage law, which came into effect on 1 July.
The text's main novelty lies in Article 4, which provides a list of acts of espionage that can be repressed. The amended article vastly expands potential crimes beyond the traditional definition of espionage - that is, intelligence apparatuses and their network of agents - and now includes activities "carried out, instigated or funded" by people and entities "other than espionage organisations and their representatives."
In addition to state secrets, Article 4 covers the illegal collection of "other documents, data, materials or items related to national security" and the execution of cyberattacks, intrusions and disruptions against state property and critical infrastructure. In its final paragraph, it simply lists "other espionage activities" as a conduct that can be criminally prosecuted, without providing further explanation.
The elastic definition of espionage is followed by several articles that shore up the authority of investigators, who are entitled, among other things, to inspect electronic equipment, raid facilities, seize documents, collect data, freeze property and arrest individuals - all of which can be filmed. Foreigners who are charged with spying can be swiftly deported and forbidden from entering Chinese territory for up to 10 years.
Moreover, the legislation encourages vigilantism as it calls on "all citizens and organisations" to "support and assist" the central authorities and "promptly report" suspicious behaviour. Those who do might be given "commendations and awards."
Running a tight ship
For the EU, the revised provisions of the anti-espionage law are both alarmingly vast and dangerously vague, giving the state a remarkably broad margin of discretion to decide what constitutes a threat to China's integrity.
Notably, at no point does the text provide a clear definition of "national security, honour and interests," making the room for interpretation even larger. Actions that were once thought to be harmless can now, in theory, be deemed injurious.
The uncertainty has been compounded by Beijing's silence about the revised law's actual purposes, says Vincent Brussee, a researcher of contemporary China at the University of Leiden, in the Netherlands.
"The concept of national security in China has immensely broadened over the past few decades. It has always been relatively broad. But Xi Jinping has introduced a concept that's called the 'comprehensive' outlook on national security, which essentially means that national security covers all domains of society," Brussee told Euronews.
"Xi Jinping sees national security as the bedrock of national development."
One of the defining traits of Xi's rule has been his zeal to tell China's story on his own terms to domestic and global audiences. His diplomatic envoys, sometimes referred to as "Wolf Warriors," are quick to harshly denounce critics who challenge the official line. This firm grip on China's narrative has driven a global propaganda machine and can help explain the latest amendments to the anti-espionage law.
"China is very keen to make sure that some foreign actors, especially the United States, do not get all of that information that could counteract or contradict whatever the Chinese Communist Party is trying to say," Brussee said.
"The anti-espionage law looks like a tool to restrict the number of sources that people can draw from, or at least penalise people who manage to constantly find new creative angles to draw on new sensitive forms of information."
Shadow of prosecution
So who is at risk? What information can be considered a threat?
According to a legal analysis by De Brauw Blackstone Westbroek, a Dutch law firm, the revised law increases scrutiny over companies that handle trade secrets, research and development (R&D) and data related to medicine, geology, demography and other fields of strategic importance. This means information about high-tech, like semiconductors, quantum computing and artificial intelligence, and the military may also become a liability.
The law firm advises multinationals that operate in China to "critically re-examine" all their operations that involve the collection and processing of data and to "carefully assess" if any of their regular suppliers across the country have state affiliations. Special attention should be put on internal audits and investigations, when "extra caution may be needed if overseas transfer of data is involved."
This could prove problematic for European subsidiaries, which are compelled to uphold adequate due diligence and send regular reports to their headquarters. Under an upcoming EU directive on corporate sustainability, big-sized firms will be required to tackle the "adverse impacts" of their operations, such as pollution, biodiversity loss, child labour and worker exploitation. Those who fail to comply with the directive, which is still not final, will face fines while victims will be empowered to launch legal action.
A separate EU law, also in negotiations, seeks to ban imports of products made using forced labour. Last year, a United Nations report found that forced labour, sexual violence and degrading treatment had taken place against Uyghur, Kazakh and other ethnic minorities in the Xinjiang region, an accusation that Beijing vigorously denied.
The new rules mean that European companies will need to obtain highly detailed and, at times, sensitive information directly from their Chinese providers. The anti-espionage law could turn this already-onerous bureaucratic exercise into a high-risk gamble, with the shadow of criminal prosecution looming large over auditors and consultants.
A series of police interventions against American companies that occurred earlier this year before the revised law came into force, including a raid in March on the Mintz Group, a corporate due diligence firm, that later resulted in a $1.5 million (1.4 million) fine for "unapproved statistical work," suggests Europe's private sector will have to keep extra tabs and err on the side of caution, even if doing do scales down the scope of their work.
"If companies are not able to comply with these EU requirements, which could potentially entail civil and criminal liability, they will be ultimately forced to leave the market or at least reduce operations in China," a spokesperson of BusinessEurope, a leading industry association, said in an emailed statement.
"China's anti-espionage law can potentially conflict with the two pieces of EU legislation, leaving economic operators between a rock and a hard place."
Source: Euronews
: National security; Criminal liability; Law firms; Political parties; Due diligence; Legislation; Criminal investigations; Espionage
: : Law firms Due diligence; : 81394 :‎ Political Organizations 54111 :‎ Offices of Lawyers
: Beijing China; United States--US; China
: Xi Jinping
/: : Communist Party-China; NAICS: 813940; : Euronews; NAICS: 517410
: 81394: Political Organizations; 54111: Offices of Lawyers
: European Union/China: Why the EU is so worried about China's anti-espionage law
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Nov 30, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2894906026
URL:  a-why-eu-is-so-worried-about/docview/2894906026/se-2?accountid=45062
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Nov 30, 2023
: 2023-11-29
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Asia: Nanjing dissident journalist Sun Lin dies after police raid on home
: Nanjing dissident journalist Sun Lin, who used the pen name Jie Mu, has died following a raid by state security police on his home last week, Radio Free Asia has learned.
"On Nov. 17, police reportedly entered his home, and neighbors later heard loud noises," the overseas-based Chinese Human Rights Defenders network said via its X account. "At 2:44 p.m. he was sent to hospital; dead at 5:45 [p.m.]."
"At the hospital, Sun Lin's family requested to see his body, but the state security police refused," the group said.
"Medical staff at the hospital said his clothes were torn and he had suffered head injuries, indicating he was beaten to death," it said.
Overseas-based dissident Sun Liyong, who isn't related to Sun Lin, said the suspected beating took place at around noon on Nov. 17.
"A group of state security officers from Nanjing's Xuanwu district broke into Sun Lin's home," he said. "Then the neighbors heard sounds of a struggle from inside."
He said police have since tried to claim they were defending themselves after being attacked by Sun.
"Sun Lin is nearly 70 years old, so how would he be able to beat up a group of young men?" he said.
Open letter
A group of Sun's friends and fellow activists, including Huang Jinqiu, Wu Lihong, Zou Wei and Zan Aizong have signed an open letter calling on the Nanjing municipal government to conduct an independent investigation into Sun's death as soon as possible, the Chinese-language rights website Weiquanwang reported.
Sun's friend Fu Tao said he believes "from the information we have so far, it seems like his death wasn't normal."
Sun was sent to Jiangsu Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine at 2:44 p.m., and the hospital pronounced him dead at 5:45 p.m.," Weiquanwang said, adding that Sun had recently undergone a full medical checkup three days earlier, and had been in "normal" health.
A friend of Sun's who gave only the surname Lu told RFA Mandarin: "They [state security police] wanted to enter his home, but [Sun] refused them entry, so they forced their way in."
Lu said he believes police beat Sun to death to stop him from speaking out.
"If they want to control you, they will use any means," Lu said. "They often kill people and cut off all contact with the outside world to prevent any kind of public backlash."
Sun's friend and fellow activist Zou Wei held up a blank sheet of A4 paper to commemorate his death in front of the Memorial to the Fallen Soldiers of the National Revolutionary Army on Xixi Road in Hangzhou on Monday.
Weiquanwang said Sun's remains are currently in the hands of the Nanjing state security police, and have been removed from the hospital.
State security police have placed Sun's daughter Sun Yijia under tight restrictions, and have visited his ex-wife He Fang to warn her against "causing trouble," it said.
Repeated calls to He Fang and Sun Yijia rang unanswered on Tuesday.
Reporting on rights violations
In a profile on its website, the Chinese Human Rights Defenders describes Sun as "independent journalist who has reported on human rights violations and the corruption of Chinese officials."
He was convicted of inciting subversion of state power on Dec. 25, 2018, and served a four-year jail term in connection with his social media posts, and for shouting "Down with the Communist Party" at a party meeting in Nanjing.
He had also served an earlier four-year jail term in 2008 for "gathering a crowd to disrupt public order" along with his then wife He Fang, after he refused to stop reporting on forced evictions at a Nanjing factory.
"Born in Nanjing on Dec. 24, 1955, Sun Lin forged a reputation from the outset of his journalism career for exercising free speech that attracted the attention of authorities," the profile said.
In August 1998, he began working with a television station in Nanjing, which dismissed him for speaking too openly about politically sensitive subjects, prompting him to launch his own video channel in September of the same year, which the authorities later shut down, it said.
Sun had also been the editor of the Nanjing version of Business Times Today and edited the Metropolis newspaper which he founded in 2000. After authorities forced Metropolis to close, Sun started to report for Boxun.
"He continued to report on social justice issues despite growing pressure and harassment by officials, culminating in his prison sentence in 2008," it said.
New book
A friend of Sun's who asked to remain anonymous said that just before his death, the authorities had paid a call on a fellow activist in the central city of Wuhan who had just received a copy of a book written by Sun.
"Ten days ago, the Nanjing state security police and the Wuhan state security police went to pay a call on [Wuhan rights activist Xiao Yuqing]," the friend said. "Sun Lin had written a book, and sent a copy to [Xiao]."
"The day after it arrived, the police showed up - he hadn't even had time to open it up and take a look," the friend said. "They took the book away."
"Sun had been chatting with Xiao Yuqing the day before [Sun died]. [Xiao] had just gotten out of hospital, and was planning a trip to Nanjing," they said.
"I know some of the rights activists in Nanjing who were taken down to the local police station after receiving the news of Sun Lin's death on the group chat," the friend said.
"Why would they cover up the news of Sun Lin's death? It's not going to work," they said.
When contacted by RFA Mandarin, Xiao said he has been banned from talking to the media or posting online, and declined to give an interview.
Xiao isn't the only dissident to have been contacted and told to keep quiet.
A Hubei-based online activist who gave only the surname Mo said he had received a call from state security police warning him not to travel anywhere.
"They said they would come round within 10 minutes if I were to buy a rail ticket anywhere," Mo said. "Henan-based rights activist Fang Yan was told by the state security police not to go to Nanjing."
"It's getting harder and harder for us to exist," Mo said.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Journalism; Journalists; Activism; Activists; Human rights
/: : Radio Free Asia; NAICS: 516210
: Asia: Nanjing dissident journalist Sun Lin dies after police raid on home
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Nov 24, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2892461117
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Nov 24, 2023
: 2023-11-23
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
The Year of the Periwinkle
: Every weekend, amateur botanists and semi-professional gardeners gather in eager droves at the Quezon City Memorial Circle Plant Center. Sheltered from the heat and smoke of Metro Manila, a sea of green in the concrete jungle, the place is a plantita's paradise. Orchids, lilies, and hoyas, monsteras and aloe vera, forests of dahlias, begonias, and geraniums. If there's any place to look for the Madagascar periwinkle, scientific name Catharanthus roseus, known locally as tsitsirika, it's here. Borne out of Africa by European ships sometime in the 16th century, the periwinkle is a healer's plant. Ayurvedic sages squeeze the flowers' juice out to relieve wasp stings. Chinese herbalists brew the glossy green leaves into a decoction for malaria. Search for the plant on Facebook; look it up on Lazada. Many claim the plant can treat acne, eczema, diabetes, cancer, and more. Not all these therapeutic claims are supported by the facts. Most lack sufficient clinical testing and evidence. Still, there's reason why the plant is known to apothecaries and pharmacists alike. Of all the illnesses reputedly healed by the periwinkle, there is one disease for which it can irrefutably provide a cure. Can you guess which one? Hint: it starts with the letter C. Ever since it spurred the development of new chemotherapeutic drugs during the mid-20th century, the Madagascar periwinkle has helped save hundreds of thousands of lives. Last year, to my unending surprise, it helped save mine. I was diagnosed with a rare form of Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a cancer of the immune system, last December 9, 2021, at the age of 23. I was in my last year of a B.S. Biology program, and had just won first prize in a research competition about Philippine biodiversity. When I was rushed to the hospital late one night for excruciating chest pain, my first thought was COVID-19. Instead, the doctors found a tumor the size of two clenched fists wrapped around my heart, with smaller tumors splattered across my lungs, liver, and spleen. I remember only a few searing images from the days surrounding my diagnosis. My mother and I in the ER, about to be referred to the oncology department; an ominous PET-CT machine, thrumming as it scanned my body for cancer; a revolving door of doctors asking repeated questions about my symptoms. Had I noticed anything odd in the weeks leading up to admission? No, just some vague shortness of breath, which I thought was asthma. For the next four months, I was told, I would need to shuttle back and forth between home and hospital for treatment. One week spent in-patient to receive chemotherapy, two weeks at home to recover, and then again, rinse and repeat, until the entire ordeal was done. Because chemotherapy weakens the immune system, I was banned from eating sushi and salads for fear of Salmonella. I would need to remain in isolation the entire time to avoid COVID-19. No one outside my immediate family, not even my grandparents, would be allowed to visit. My father and I marked the holidays by getting rid of our hair. I shaved his head, he shaved mine. By the time chemo began just a few days before Christmas, I was already falling into an abyss so deep and black it swallowed everything, leaving only a blank terror in the mind. To appreciate the power of the Madagascar periwinkle, we first have to understand life at the scale of the cell. Every human cell contains organelles, tiny structures roughly analogous to the larger organs of our bodies. The cellular version of the skeleton is called the cytoskeleton. It has three types of bones: microfilaments, intermediate filaments, and last but not least, microtubules, which span the entire volume of the cell like a network of microscopic pipes. During cell division, microtubules are responsible for directing newly duplicated chromosomes to their respective daughter cells. Without microtubules, the cell's entire internal organization collapses, its ability to reproduce itself snuffed. Our cells normally run like tightly controlled machines. They divide only when they need to, stay docile when they don't, following the instructions contained by their genes to the letter. However, when these instructions are effaced by mutation, which can be caused by anything from radiation to cigarette smoke or just plain old bad luck, the cell goes haywire. It rampages, a berserk robot on a malfunctioning assembly line, only this time the robot can make more and more of itself until the entire factory is overrun. The mutated cells spread to the lungs, liver, and spleen. Left unchecked they will invade gut and kidney, brain and bone. This is cancer. The team of Canadian scientists who stumbled upon the Madagacar periwinkle weren't actually looking for new anti-cancer drugs. A Jamaican colleague had sent them a few periwinkle leaves, explaining that the plant was used locally to brew a tea for diabetics. He wanted them to check if the leaves had any actual anti-diabetic effect. The Canadians began their tests by injecting diabetic mice with crude periwinkle extract. The mice died. Why? Apparently, rather than controlling blood sugar, some compound present in the extract disintegrated microtubules, especially those found in rapidly dividing cells. One consequence of this was the destruction of the mice's rapidly dividing, blood-forming bone marrow, leading to a catastrophic drop in white blood cell counts and a dysfunctional immune system. Taken orally as part of a tea, the compound had no significant effects. However, at higher concentrations, and injected directly into the bloodstream, the result was deadly. The mice died of blistering infection. Some cancers, however, like lymphoma, are caused by the abnormal proliferation of mutated white blood cells. By interfering with microtubule formation, the periwinkle extract could also short-circuit cancerous cell division. The rampaging robot stops, falls apart. Realizing the significance of their discovery, the Canadians worked to refine their crude extract. By 1962, they could reliably isolate the first of a class of microtubule disrupting, cancer- killing drugs now called the Vinca alkaloids, after the Madagascar periwinkle's old scientific name, Vinca roseus. Vincristine, one such alkaloid, became part of the first multi-drug regimen to produce a durable cure in cancer patients. Unfortunately, vincristine can be a double-edged sword. Chemotherapy disrupts cell division in healthy tissues as well. Hair, the acid-worn lining of the stomach, blood-forming bone marrow, all require constant cell division to regenerate themselves and function properly. Hence the familiar side-effects of cancer treatment: hair loss, debilitating nausea, crippling fatigue. My chemotherapy regimen consisted of five drugs: vincristine, as well as rituximab, etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin. In an IV bag the latter three form an evil- looking, reddish orange liquid, a potion straight from hell. By the third day of every week-long hospital stay I would be wholly confined to the bed. Think of the worst flu possible. Imagine running a ten-mile marathon and being mauled by sledgehammers immediately after. It's unexplainable. Your muscles crumble, your gut falls apart. Locked in the chilly confines of a cramped hospital room, assisted by my mother whenever I needed to go to the toilet, I would spend entire afternoons trying not to vomit. Overwhelmed by the sudden awareness of my own mortality, I became obsessed with my disease. I read each and every WebMD article, prowled Facebook patient groups at 3 a.m., skimmed the latest obscure reports on the latest arcane drug trials. I memorized survival rates: about 90% of patients with my kind of cancer are cured with first-line treatment. The remaining 10% tend to be unresponsive to further therapy - people of 'dismal prognoses,' as one research paper called it. The fact that about 90% of patients are cured, that I could be cured at all, should have been reassuring. Except it wasn't, not really. Think of it like a game of Russian roulette. Five out of six chambers promise salvation and are empty. The last contains a bullet. Put the barrel against the side of your head and consider: when it's life or death, are there ever any safe bets? Not that I had a choice. Back home, exhausted, I watched the ashen light pouring past my window. Stranded in my own personal limbo, barred from any meaningful contact with anyone beyond immediate family, life took on a spare, ascetic quality. Time shrank. The past became a fading blur, the future disintegrated. My room became my monastery. There was only treatment and what was necessary to get past it. Sometime that summer, a pair of olive-backed sunbirds made a nest above my parents' balcony. Tiny, joyfully-colored birds with bright yellow chests and long thin beaks for probing nectar, sunbird males can be differentiated from females by their iridescent blue throats. The pair in question had been scouting my parents' balcony for some time. They came by every morning, whistling their high-pitched, outsized song - weet weet! - while hopping from branch to branch. Evidently something about the place made them happy, and we were relieved to have them too. The one point of hope during those impossible days was my oncologist, a fierce, grey- haired tiger of a woman who made tumors tremble at her approach. At the beginning of my treatment, she explained the plan clearly and succinctly. 'If A happens, then B. If C happens, then D.' Would I be ok? What were my chances? 'I don't like talking about chances,' she said. 'Don't worry, we'll take care of you.' I completed chemotherapy early April. I wasn't expecting much. A while before I had done a mid-therapy PET/CT scan to assess how treatment was going, and the results weren't encouraging. The main mass choking my heart had shriveled away, and so had the smaller tumors in my lungs, but the ones peppering my spleen and liver were unchanged. No growth, but no decrease either, which suggested a dire possibility. As with antibiotics, the best bet with chemotherapy is to eradicate the disease entirely by the first attack. Should any cancer cell survive the initial wave of medication, they will, by force of evolution, pass down their chemo- resistant genes to their offspring, who will continue to explosively multiply. Undeterred, my oncologist scheduled another PET/CT scan. The morning after the scan I went immediately to the hospital's online portal to download the results. I read it from top to bottom: complete remission. No detectable cancer. No active tumor anywhere in the body. I was clean. Clean, clean, clean. My mother wept with joy. So did my aunts, my grandmother, and probably my grandfather as well, at least after the video call was over. My father became teary eyed too. But not me. I felt empty. My emotions were less happiness than exhausted relief. The marathon, for now, was over. Time to crawl back into bed for a long nap. Everything else could come after. Once I had awoken weeks later, it was finally time to put the pieces back together. And of the many thoughts and desires that crystallized out of the chaos, there was one that burned with immediate urgency: Field. Work. As I've mentioned before, I'm a training biologist, specifically a budding field biologist, a would-be sage of tropical biodiversity. I don't know why. I've been a city boy all my life. Maybe it was all the National Geographic Channel programs as a child. Or maybe it's because I live in one of the most biodiverse countries on Earth, a place so dense with life that in terms of species per square kilometer it rivals the Amazon Rainforest. In any case, there is something about the non-human world, the secrets of birds, the intelligence of bees, the constant flow of energy from mortal coil to fertile soil, which calls me. Except, of course, that I was a student during a global pandemic, and face to face classes were still suspended, including fieldwork classes. I got desperate. Nobody wants to be a field biologist with only theoretical knowledge of the field. More than anything I wanted to avoid dying not even a full apprentice of my chosen trade. An opportunity arose in July. With the recent dip in COVID cases and loosening of quarantine restrictions, my college was organizing a week-long field ecology class in a forest near Subic Bay. One of the professors sent a message. Would I like to come? I was at the college by 5:00AM on departure day, bags full of shiny new gear: wet boots, sleeping bag, Swiss knife, journal, pencil, headlamp. We left about an hour late under a pale drenched sky and had breakfast at a Pancake House by the highway. By the time our vans arrived at the trail to the campsite, a grove of mahogany trees by a rushing river, the ground had long turned to squelching mud. An important lesson: always bring your own tent. I had the brilliant idea of saving money by borrowing an extra from the professors, only to discover that extra tents are extra because they're old and leaky and nobody wants them. We caught, measured, tagged, and released a number of beautiful birds, including an ashy ground thrush and an indigo-banded kingfisher. Our guide poked open a small hole in a rod of bamboo, revealing a wriggling colony of tiny, snub-nosed bats, insectivorous members of the genus Tylonycteris, smaller than your palm and crabby at having their home broken into (the bamboo was glued and tied back into place later). We ran after frogs and toads, snakes and lizards, chased after insects with glass jars in hand. An absurdly wishful part of me wanted to see a cloud rat, an adorably furry rodent found only on Philippine mountaintops, but alas, it was not to be. Our rodent traps failed, the coconut and peanut butter bait eaten by ants. We spent an entire day counting and identifying trees, arguably the most exhausting part of the entire class. After all, how many trees do you think are there in a forest? A wasp stung my palm as I blundered through the underbrush. It swelled for the entire day. Mosquitoes and other ungodly bugs feasted on my legs. Blisters, scratches, welts. None of it mattered. The rain stopped. Patches of blue sky shone through the canopy. I was here, alive, surrounded by tropical heat, slipping through pools of verdant sunlight. I mentioned receiving five drugs for chemotherapy. Two of them were created solely in the lab: rituximab, a monoclonal antibody, and cyclophosphamide, manufactured from the same class of chemicals used to make mustard gas (which, I was surprised to learn, has no actual relation with the mustard plant, except for the name and similar odor). The remaining three can be traced back to wild plants and bacteria. Vincristine comes from the Madagascar periwinkle. Etoposide comes from the wild mandrake, a poisonous plant common to North America, once used by First Nation communities to heal warts. Doxorubicin was isolated from a mutated strain of Italian soil-inhabiting bacteria. This shouldn't come as a surprise. Many modern drugs and technologies come from the most innocuous of natural sources. PCR tests for COVID-19 depend upon an enzyme from Thermus aquaticus, a heat-resistant species of bacteria first discovered from a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. Ziconotide, a potent painkiller about a thousand times more powerful than morphine, is derived from the poison of Conus magus, a cone snail native to the Philippines. Artemisinin, used to treat malaria, is extracted from Artemisia annua, the sweet wormwood, an herb commonly used in Chinese traditional medicine. According to writer-oncologist Siddhartha Mukherjee, between 1954 and 1964, the National Cancer Institute of the United States would test 17,200 plant derivatives looking for new cancer drugs, using up close to one million mice for experiments in the process. Screening the natural world for new products is big business. So it was with the Madagascar periwinkle. The Canadian researchers who worked on the plant were supported by the Eli Lilly company, perhaps better known for releasing the first commercially available insulin in the early 20th century. Eli Lilly gave the Canadians access to expensive chemicals and bigger, better equipment. In return, the researchers helped generate a lucrative, life-saving product. By the early 2000s, Vinca alkaloid sales would net Eli Lilly around 100 million dollars in annual profit. Yet rampant extraction has a price. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Association warns that around 10 million hectares of forest are destroyed each year. Conservationists estimate that Madagascar has lost close to half its forest cover since the 1950's. The Philippines has lost its forests at a similar if not greater rate. What happens when all forests have been logged down? When all springs have been polluted with filth? What new miracle cures then? Near the end of our field ecology class, we went to a nearby shore to practice aquatic sampling. We waded into the sea, nets and other scientific instruments in hand to study fish. By mid-morning, we had set the nets aside and spent the rest of the day swimming. Why? There were barely any fish. There was barely anything to do science with. Our professor had been bringing students to that spot for just over half a decade, and in that span of time he witnessed the bay go from somewhat intact coast to a barren, garbage strewn wasteland. The fish had been consumed, replaced by industrial waste. 'We are literally,' he said, in a combination of indignation, disbelief, and sorrow, 'emptying the sea.' On the ride home from Subic, I watched the silver countryside rush gleaming by. Interconnection is a fundamental theme of ecology. It's a tangled science, sensitive to obscure yet essential linkages. Sunlight is captured by leaves, which are plucked by herbivores, who are hunted by carnivores, who themselves eventually die of hunger or old age, to be decomposed by fungi back into the earth. Ultimately, even the most urban of us need good soil, clean air, and clear water to survive. With that as my starting point, I wanted to know: How many beings do I owe my life to? It's a question of gratitude. By all rights I should be dead, and yet I wasn't. I was saved. By who? And how many? How far back do the vital connections go? The 1958 paper publicly announcing the discovery of a new class of chemotherapeutic drugs from the Madagascar periwinkle has three listed authors: James Cutts, research fellow of Canada's National Cancer Institute, Charles Beer, distinguished chemist and British Empire Cancer Exchange Fellow, and Robert Noble, team lead and member of the Canadian Medical Hall of Fame. At the end of the paper, briefly mentioned in the acknowledgements, is Halina Czajkowski Robinson, Polish immigrant and survivor of Auschwitz, who joined the team as a lab technologist in 1951. She was the first to notice the stark drop in white blood cell counts caused by periwinkle injections in mice. Recognizing the significance of her observations, she was quick to inform her supervisor. He had another hospital double-check her results. Without Robinson's keen work, nobody might have noticed anything amiss about the poor mice. Where did the lab get their samples from? The initial material came from Dr. C. D. Johnston of Black River, Jamaica, who sent the first periwinkle leaves to Canada. He learned about the plant from a chatty local, who brewed a tea for diabetics from the leaves of an alien plant. The doctor's wife, Mrs. Julia Johnston, organized a troop of boy scouts to scour local forests for the leaves, before drying and preparing them for delivery on her own veranda. The list of names goes on and on. How did that chatty local first learn of the periwinkle? Remember, the plant isn't native to Jamaica. Perhaps they heard about it from Indian and Chinese immigrants to the country (mostly indentured laborers under the British empire), or overheard a passing merchant extolling its qualities on the docks (19th-century British salesmen marketed the plant as a cure-all for diabetes). So many chance conversations, so many small meetings had to happen for the periwinkle to reach me. Each of us exists embedded in a web of relationships, the trail of connections extending far back in space and time. Some parts of the story I do know for certain. Who saved my life? First and foremost, my medical team. My general of an oncologist. The residents and fellows who work with her. My surgeons, pathologists, and anesthesiologists. My cardiologist. My nurses, who always checked in on me when I was in the hospital, and who never failed to fix the beeping IV drip when it woke me up at night. Family and friends. Cutts, Beer, and Noble. Czajkowski and Dr. Johnston. The mice. In case of emergency, wrote the poet Sandra Cisneros, 'Contact nearest/cloud. Begin by/calling Milky way.' Summon the Madagascar periwinkle. Call the wild mandrake. Invoke bacteria. Greet the sunbirds. Stretch and exercise the human capacity for empathy, because isn't a little stretching good every once in a while? Think of all the mice sacrificed for the sake of modern medicine. How many legions of murine souls watch us from rodent heaven, observing our silly antics with beady, inscrutable eyes? I imagine them peering at me through a break in the clouds: all this, just to save a life. The weeks after fieldwork were filled with joyful excess. I went bar-hopping with friends. I ate everything I was banned from eating during chemotherapy. In August, we flew with my grandparents to Turkey, eager to experience Turkish hospitality and the winding, weaving, melting-pot chaos of their bazaars. We arrived in Istanbul one sunny afternoon, our plane flying over the waters of the Golden Horn, an estuary so named for its molten glow at sunset. I vividly remember our second day at the ancient capital, once the home of Byzantine then Ottoman emperors. We were at a crowded square near the core of the city, surrounded by graceful mosques, fresh from the cardamom aroma of a spice market. Silver trees stood shining in the sunlight. The call to prayer rolled singsong over red-tiled hills. Our train card was empty and nobody knew how to refill it using the ticket machine. We tried inserting the card into various slots. Nothing worked. We pressed random buttons, hoping for the best. The machine responded with angry gibberish. It flashed a series of terse instructions on the screen. The instructions were in Turkish. Our hotel was an hour's walk away. As families often do in such dire situations, we quarreled. You're doing it wrong. Let's ask somebody for help. Again? None of us can speak the language! What if we just walk instead? I'm hungry, let's eat. Our furious chatter drew the attention a slender young man wearing a neon safety vest. Hello, he said, gingerly approaching us. Can I help you? We stood for a moment like a herd of deer caught in the headlights. Oh! Oh, yes. We don't how to refill our train card. Here, let me show you. He asked for the card and placed it on the screen. You press this, then this. You put your money in this slot. We fumbled for cash in our pockets. No need, he said, fishing out a 50 lira bill from his wallet. I'll refill it for you. We asked the young man about himself. Where did he come from? Syria, he said. He had come to Istanbul several years ago with his parents to escape the war. Refugees. Right now he was working with the local tourist office to help lost visitors like us. My father, effusive with gratitude, replied in Arabic. 'Hataa naltaqi mujadadan, inshallah.' Till we meet again, God willing. The young man's large brown eyes lit up in pleasant surprise. 'Mashallah! La mushkilata! Shkran! Yaetani!' Wonderful! No problem! Thank you! Take care! And we were on our way. How breathtaking, the kindness of strangers. It reminded me of home. Like a wellspring, so many people stepped forward to help me during my time of need: aunts and uncles, godparents, old classmates, fellow cancer survivors, former teachers. To be loved is a permanent gift, carried across years and continents, a shelter to take refuge in during dark and difficult times. After Istanbul we made short visits to the cities of Izmir and Bursa, saw the Roman Agora, lingered in the airy interior of the Grand Mosque, stayed for a while in dusty, golden Cappadocia. The warm memory of our Syrian friend would remain, together with all the other memories made during that trip, as our plane returned to Manila during a downpour, grey skies churning in the wake of a passing typhoon, in time for me to catch the lump that would appear on my neck later that September. It has been difficult to describe, even to myself, the terror of the past year, the pain and grueling nature of chemotherapy, and the strain of living every day with death perched silently on your shoulder. It has been difficult to communicate the profound awareness of one's own mortality, the irrevocable loss of youthful invulnerability, and the feeling of having received, in what should have been the prime of your life, a glimpse of your frailty at 80. I am in ordinary times an avid journal keeper. I try my best to jot down an entry every day. But from the time I realized my cancer was back in September up to the beginning of a stem cell transplant in December, I wrote down nothing. Blank. Dead silence on every page. I felt like a man on the execution block. I felt like someone scheduled to die. My namesake, Macario Sakay, was betrayed by a comrade while fighting against the Americans early in the 20th century. With the noose around his neck, he somehow found the grace and resolve necessary to bid farewell to his beloved country and hope for a brighter future. With death on my mind as well, I looked back at him with renewed awe. How did he ever muster the courage? From where are such reserves of willpower drawn? My oncologist referred me to a new specialist, a hematologist, who explained that the next step would be a stem cell transplant. I would be given chemotherapy so intense and in such high doses that my bone marrow would be entirely seared away, leaving me, for a time, without an immune system, just like the mice experimented on during the early days of Vinca alkaloid research. To let me survive the procedure, they would extract stem cells from my blood before beginning treatment, putting the cells back into my body only once chemo was over, where they would then grow and replace my destroyed bone marrow. It would be hard, he promised, but I'd get past it. A litany of possible short- and long-term side-effects: Hair loss. Crippling nausea. Fatigue. Breakdown of the mucous membranes lining my digestive tract. Mouth sores. Loss of appetite. Vulnerability to infection for at least a year, while my new marrow develops. A small risk of heart failure. A small risk of developing a second cancer in the future, particularly leukemia. Just half a year ago I thought I was cured, and now here I was again, seemingly back to square one. I could hear the angels of doubt swirling above my head. Why? How could this have happened? Well, an angel answers. Around 400 million years ago a fish walks out of the sea. That walking fish gives birth to more walking fish, whose descendants become amphibians, reptiles, birds, mammals. From the mammals come the apes, and from the apes, humans. Some humans, the Austronesians, sail out of what is now Taiwan toward the Philippines. Those who stay in the archipelago intermingle with native communities, trade with China, embrace Islam, are colonized by the Spaniards, become Filipino, rebel, stage a revolution, eject the Spaniards, are invaded by the Americans, fail, resist again. Other Austronesians move on, some sailing all the way across the Indian Ocean, to a large island near the African coast, where they encounter a dainty-looking shrub with pretty flowers, a hardy inhabitant of sandy soil. It's the Madagascar periwinkle. You are born, a Filipino of the 21st century. We have come full circle. Before handing me off to her hematologist colleague, my oncologist gave me her rosary. Keep faith, she said. You'll get through this. My oncologist has always been a bit taken aback by her patient's stubborn agnosticism, one of the rare heretics in a majority Catholic country. She has always tried her best to understand all the strange talismans I bring with me to the hospital: wooden crosses, Buddhist prayer beads, a lucky sock, a favorite pen, the notebook my sister gave me for my birthday. What lies beyond death? Perhaps birdsong, suggests Dr. Joey A. Tabula. Placing his stethoscope against the heaving chest of a man dying from COVID-19, he hears, to his surprise, 'crickets/the chirp of nesting sparrows/rustling of bamboo/burble of stream/the silence of an earthen jar filled with spring water.' Whatever your approach to mystery, any gift sincerely given forms by itself a kind of miracle. My hematologist was right - the stem cell transplant was the hardest of all my cancer treatments. I was in the hospital for a month, reeling from body pains, nausea, and fatigue. All my food had to be sterilized beforehand to prevent infection. My white blood cell counts dipped close to zero. At one point I went down with a fever so harsh I became delirious, imagining myself writing poetry in some strange desert, the individual lines ringing so clear and true that the air sang as I spelled out the words in the sand. And yet, after all that, here I am. I surfaced from delirium with a lingering sense of transformation. My stem cells engrafted to my bone marrow on December 7, 2022, a successful transplantation, almost a year to the day after my initial diagnosis. A few weeks later, the good news came through. I am cancer-free once again. There's a certain kind of vertigo that haunts patients who emerge intact from treatment. After spending so much time with your mind's eye locked on the certainty of your own ending, the sudden influx of possibilities can be overwhelming. Will my cancer come back? What if I catch COVID-19? Are they still looking for research assistants in the lab? What happens now? It's like seeing the sky for the first time. It's like falling into space. The agony of hope is that no one can ever really predict the future. Either way, I have lived a good life. An odd thing to say, but it's true. I have seen my share of the globe. I have given my tiny contribution to science, however humble. I have had the pleasure of reading, of touching through countless pages radiant minds both living and long- dead, and of entering the boundless realms of story many times beyond measure. I have had the privilege and luck of affording quality medical care. And I have been blessed with the warm company of family and friends; the gift, in this winter of discontent, of witnessing love tried and tested and found true. The lens through which you view the world has been fractured and remade, infused with a different color, and now when you peer through the glass everything appears just an inch or so off-center. Back at the Quezon City Memorial Circle Plant Center, I pay the shopkeeper for my potted periwinkle. I try to study the way her leaves branch off the main stem, the number of petals on each flower, how the yellow core of stamens and ovaries at the center of each pink bloom shines golden under the sun. Up above, white clouds float idly by. How nice it would be, to pass away under the infinite blue sky. There I will rise like smoke and become air. Ash to ash, dust to dust. Breath to shining breath. What was once I will melt away, the carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen of my body spinning away to join the atmosphere. But first, home. My new companion needs a spot in the garden. She's a pretty plant, tougher than she looks, with laughing flowers and long grasping branches. I cradle her close to my chest. So this is why people get into gardening. There's something reassuring about carrying such a burden, the responsibility of it, the weight. It grounds you, steadies you, to hold a piece of life blooming in your hand.
: Patients; Hair; Diabetes; Cancer therapies; Immune system; Robots; Drugs; Families & family life; Bone marrow; Lymphoma; Blood; Chemotherapy; COVID-19; Cell division
: Madagascar
: The Year of the Periwinkle
: Business Mirror; Makati City
: 2023
: Oct 27, 2023
: AsiaNet Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd.
: Makati City
/: Pakistan, Makati City
: Business And Economics
ISSN: 19081189
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2882151377
URL: 
: (c)2023 Business Mirror
: 2023-10-27
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Healing Flow Clinic opens on The Green in Norton, Stockton
: Robinson, Michael. 
: A new clinic offering acupuncture, Pilates and various other forms of holistic care opened in a North East town this week.
Claire Thornton, 35, who trained in Thai massage in the US and Asia, said she was excited to bring Healing Flow Clinic to The Green in Norton after it opened on Monday (October 9).
She said she first started operating with Healing Flow in 2017 out of a small room on the town's High Street.
She said she was pleased to be a part of Norton's community which has many woman-led businesses - and cited The Green Florist, The Sewing Studio, and Blackwells as those she was happy to be joining.
Read more: Woman in hospital after Broadwell Road, Middlesbrough crash
Ms Thornton said: "In my late teens and early 20s, I did a lot of travelling. I worked in America and went to South East Asia, I trained there in Thai massage.
"I was working on a yoga retreat there and met a lady who did acupuncture, I came back to England to do my degree in Chinese medicine, and from there, it just exploded.
"We specialise in acupuncture treatments for muscular tension, and depression, people come to us for grief.
"We're just a safe space and an alternative to any Western medicine as well. We're just to be a community more than anything.
Read more: Fusión Mexicana opens in Darlington Market to rave reviews
"Instead of taking paracetamol for your ongoing headaches, you can come and see us, and we can see if it's more stress-related or pressure in the neck. It's an alternative.
"It's a nice complement, a different route on how you can treat yourself."
Ms Thornton stressed it is not a strict replacement for traditional medicine, and serves as another method to help people.
She said the Stockton clinic also offers acupuncture to support those undergoing IVF and claimed this is 'helpful' for those undergoing the process.
She said this is supported by other treatments such as massage, reflexology, and other methods.
Other treatments the clinic offers include pregnancy massage, sports massage, non-surgical facelifts, and body contouring.
Read next:
* Stable Hearth in Darlington win best pizzeria in England
* Al Forno in Darlington win best Italian restaurant award
* Works on Marine Parade promenade in Saltburn halted
Get more news, politics and entertainment coverage from The Northern Echo with a subscription. Click here.
The clinic also hosts a yoga studio on the floor below which works in tandem with the holistic treatments offered, and will host classes running throughout the day between 8am and 7:15pm.
The business will be open from 10am to 8pm, Monday to Saturday.
The clinic has taken over the building which used to house Good Taste, and coincidentally, the owner of the previous store and her daughter were the clinic's first clients.
: Acupuncture
: England; United Kingdom--UK
: Healing Flow Clinic opens on The Green in Norton, Stockton
: Robinson, Michael
: Northern Echo; Darlington (UK)
: 2023
: Oct 12, 2023
: Newsquest (North East) Ltd.
: Darlington (UK)
/: United Kingdom, Darlington (UK)
: General Interest Periodicals--Great Britain
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2876177129
URL:  pers/healing-flow-clinic-opens-on-green-norton/docview/2876177129/se-2?accountid=45062
: Copyright Newsquest (North East) Ltd. Oct 12, 2023
: 2023-10-13
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Thomson Medical appoints veteran healthcare leader Lee Suen Ming as CEO
: Jessie. 
: THOMSON Medical Group has appointed Lee Suen Ming as its new chief executive officer, the healthcare group said in a bourse filing on Wednesday (Oct 11).
Lee was previously chief executive officer at Mount Alvernia Hospital, Gleneagles Hospital, Parkway East Hospital and most recently, the Dr Soliman Fakeeh Hospital in Saudi Arabia. He will take over from Dr Daniel Lee on Nov 1.
Dr Melvin Heng, group chief executive officer of Thomson Medical Group, said Lee Suen Ming's appointment comes at a "pivotal point in a growth story that we kick-started a year ago".
The group has plans to grow regionally. In July, it acquired FV Hospital -- a multi-specialised healthcare facility in Vietnam -- for as much as US$381.4 million. This was the largest healthcare deal in Vietnam to date, and the biggest in South-east Asia since 2020.
Beyond Vietnam, Thomson Medical Group is also actively seeking investment opportunities in Indonesia.
Dr Daniel Lee will remain with the group and work alongside Lee Suen Ming until the end of November to ensure a smooth transition, it said.
Lee Suen Ming will oversee the 187-bed Thomson Medical Centre and a network of over 30 specialist medical clinics and facilities providing outpatient healthcare services for women and children, as well as service offerings in areas such as medical aesthetics, traditional Chinese medicine and diagnostic imaging.
Lee Suen Ming holds an engineering degree from the Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine in London, as well as an MBA.
He was also formerly with DBS Bank.
: Hospitals; Appointments & personnel changes
: : Appointments & personnel changes; : 62211 :‎ General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: Vietnam
: 62211: General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: Thomson Medical appoints veteran healthcare leader Lee Suen Ming as CEO
: Jessie
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: Oct 12, 2023
: COMPANIES & MARKETS
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2875756255
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-10-12
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Singapore: Speech by Minister Josephine Teo at the 2nd Anniversary Celebration of SG WEN
: Good afternoon. I am delighted to join you on this occasion of SG WEN's second anniversary. Congratulations to you for turning two.
I was very happy to receive your invitation; and it did not take me very long to agree to it because I have a soft spot for women entrepreneurs.
My late grandmother was born in 1921, so if she was still alive, that would make her 102 years old. She was forced onto the path of entrepreneurship when she became a young widow because she had not been schooled. In her generation, educational opportunities were few and far between. So, the family had to choose. The boys got the education, so she had to piggyback her brothers to walk that long distance to take them to school. But she was very curious, so she would stand outside the window and learn everything anyway, without having to pay the fees.
She was a very remarkable person. And in some sense, I was not surprised why entrepreneurship worked for her because after all, she had already escaped an arranged marriage by refusing to accept a marriage proposal. Then, she appealed to her father to bring her along - from their village in China to Singapore.
But she did not expect that my grandfather, although a Traditional Chinese Medicine practitioner, did not identify the symptoms of his own disease. So, he passed on. Then, she thickened her skin, asked her father for some finances, wound up my grandfather's medicinal hall and started her small shoe business because she boldly decided that Singapore was on the upswing and that people would need shoes. So, I had my first experience in sales by getting people to buy shoes.
She was a great example to me also because whatever resources that she was able to build up for herself, she did not keep for herself. Instead, whenever she could, she shared her learning opportunities and more with others. She benefited many people in her circle, some who had fallen on hard times. And I say this because I think in the hands of women entrepreneurs, there is the power not just to build families, but also the power to strengthen their communities. When they succeed, women often find some way of giving back to society and benefiting others who have helped them along the way. When we think about what it means to take Singapore forward, this must be it.
The sense of solidarity, the sense of shared commitment to one another - women entrepreneurs embody that in so many ways. According to the Intellectual Property Office of Singapore, it is reported that 1 in 4 entrepreneurs in Singapore are women. This is a good improvement from about six years ago, when the figure was reportedly was 1 in 5. But even then, Isuspect that while many businesses are fronted by gentlemen, there are many capable woman entrepreneurs behind these businesses - helping to shape and decide the direction of the company, as well as taking care of the many details that must be looked after for the business to thrive. I have also seen how daughters are increasingly seen - by merit - as the best persons to take the family business forward. And I think this speaks well of the development in our society.
I just want to cap off by saying that far from being forced into entrepreneurship, today's women in Singapore have many more choices. And when they take on entrepreneurship, it is not just a matter of fulfilling their own aspirations. It is also them saying that they know they can be more, they know that they can have a bigger impact.
They know that there is something in the world out there that needs them. That is the spirit that is empowering, and that is the spirit that you want to see and grow. That is why, last year, we decided to table a White Paper in Parliament to debate Women's Development - the first time in Singapore's history.
Today, our women entrepreneurs are not just doing well in Singapore. They are really flying the flag on the world stage. Not so long ago, two women entrepreneurs from Flexxon, which deals with cybersecurity, came in as gold medalist at the World Intellectual Property Awards. Camellia Chan is one of the founders of this company. She has really flown Singapore's flag high.
She is not the only one. I was in Bengaluru for the G20 and was invited to the Digital Innovation Alliance award show. They were recognizing entrepreneurs who had been nominated by the members as well as the guest countries of the G20. So, over 20 countries were involved. For the top prize of the 'Secured Digital Infrastructure' category, the Chief Operating Officer and co-founder of Accredify, Tan Jing Yi, went up and received the prize.
In the 'EdTech' category, CognaLearn received the top award and was represented by Shreya Verma.
I share this with you as a reflection of the tremendous potential and enthusiasm that we have amongst women entrepreneurs in Singapore. I want to encourage you to continue this work. I know it is not easy, but I want you to know that every initiative that you implement and every woman entrepreneur that you induct into this community is a shining light and will one day help to bring even greater recognition to this wonderful community in Singapore.
On that note, keep up your great work, and I am happy to be here with you. Thank you.
(Ministry of Communications and Information)
: Entrepreneurs; Entrepreneurship; Women; Intellectual property
: : Entrepreneurs Entrepreneurship
: Singapore
/: : Group of Twenty; NAICS: 926110
: Singapore: Speech by Minister Jo sephine Teo at the 2nd Anniversary Celebration of SG WEN
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Oct 11, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2874939578
URL:  id=45062
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Oct 11, 2023
: 2023-10-10
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
TAI CHI
: JULIE CORLISS Harvard Health Publications. 
: * Facebook
* Twitter
* WhatsApp
* SMS
* Email
* Print
* Copy article link
* Save
JULIE CORLISS Harvard Health Publications
Most people recognize that exercise is one of the best ways to boost cardiovascular health. But what if traditional exercise seems either too challenging or otherwise inaccessible — or maybe even boring? Or perhaps you're recovering from a heart attack or other medical problem and need to ease back into activity. If so, tai chi might be worth a try.
"Tai chi is a gentle, adaptable practice that features flowing movements combined with breathing and cognitive focus," says Dr. Peter Wayne, associate professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School.
The cardiovascular benefits likely stem from a combination of the physical and mental aspects of this ancient Chinese practice.
Body and mind benefits
A tai chi session doesn't aim to dramatically raise your heart rate or build bulky muscles. But the slow, deliberate movements still help to tone your muscles. If you move more quickly from one position to the next and sink deeper into the postures, tai chi can even provide a moderate aerobic workout.
* Gold mine near Yellowstone purchased to avoid development
* Pedestrian killed in midtown Billings identified
* Yellowstone, Glacier to close if Republicans force government shutdown
* Montana delegation splits on federal shutdown votes
* 19th Annual HarvestFest returns to downtown Billings
* Billings airport gets $1M grant to help expand direct flights to California
* Photo: Burger King closes on King Avenue East
* Two Yellowstone County residents indicted for threatening president, national leaders
* Billings man charged with child sex abuse in Washington
* Billings man sentenced for raping, secretly recording teen
* Livingston's Campione lands on New York Times' top restaurants list
* Journey, Toto to play Metra in March
* Top of the Beartooth Highway reopens
* Section of Wicks Lane to close for a month for construction
* Grizzly killed near Gardiner after charging hunter
Conversely, you can dial down the intensity and even do certain movements while seated in a chair. Unlike yoga, tai chi doesn't require you to fully extend or stretch your joints, so it's fine for people who are not so flexible.
Like yoga, tai chi is a mind-body practice that requires focused attention as you move through a series of choreographed moves. Many have descriptive names that evoke scenes from nature, such as "wave hands like clouds" or "the white crane spreads its wings."
Concentrating on that imagery, along with your breathing and movements, counteracts what Asian meditative traditions call "monkey mind" — the distracting mental chatter that often intrudes when people do traditional meditation. In this way, tai chi can foster relaxation and ease stress. Tai chi also teaches you to pay close attention to your posture, breathing and heart rate.
"This increased body awareness can help prevent injury and over exertion," Wayne says.
Heartfelt effects
An article published online July 3 by Cardiology in Review considered the heart-related benefits of tai chi. Many studies have documented improvements in blood pressure after just eight to 12 weeks of practicing tai chi, including among older, sedentary adults and heart attack survivors. There's also good evidence that tai chi can be an effective alternative for people who don't want to do traditional cardiac rehabilitation (a structured program of exercise and education for people recovering from heart-related problems). In addition, tai chi has proved helpful for people with heart failure, who tend to be tired and weak as a result of the heart's diminished pumping ability.
The authors also point out that tai chi can be a gateway to other types of physical activity because the practice may improve balance, reduce the risk of falls and even help ease lower back pain — a common reason for avoiding exercise.
"More fundamentally, the fitness gains and self-awareness from tai chi training can give people the confidence to engage in other physical and social activities that can enhance health," Wayne says.
Ready to try tai chi?
Tai chi classes are often offered at martial arts studios, but you can also find them at senior or community centers, health clubs, universities or hospitals. Most facilities list class descriptions on their websites; if not, call to inquire which class would be best for you, based on your experience and fitness level.
Many of the academic health centers throughout the United States with integrative health programs off er tai chi classes. Some cardiac rehabilitation programs, including those affiliated with several Harvard teaching hospitals, incorporate tai chi into their programs.
Hourlong classes usually cost around $15 to $25. Some centers allow you to pay by the week, the month or several months. Many places now off er online classes, as well, and evidence shows that you can reap similar benefits from virtual instruction.
Wear loose, comfortable clothing and supportive shoes like sneakers (or no shoes, if you prefer). During the class, the instructor will demonstrate graceful, slow arm and leg movements, often done with a slight bend in the knees. The sequence of poses can be done standing or, in some cases, while seated in a chair.
You can also watch and follow along with free videos that illustrate movements from the Harvard report on tai chi at www.health.harvard.edu/ tai-chi-calisthenics and www.health. harvard.edu/tai-chi-elements.
Steady yourself
Here's a quick tai chi imagery exercise to try anytime you start to feel unstable.
■ Take a few slow, deep breaths.
■ Feel your feet on the ground.
■ Imagine your feet growing deep roots like a tree's.
■ Continue for a few more breaths, relaxing your weight deeper into your roots with each exhale.
— Harvard Health
"This increased body awareness can help prevent injury and over exertion."
Dr. Peter Wayne, associate professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School
0 Comments
Tags
* Medicine
* Sports
* Martial Arts
* Education
* Anatomy
* Zoology
* Cardiology
* Physiology
* Job Market
Be the first to know
Get local news delivered to your inbox!
: College professors; Exercise; Government shutdowns; Physical fitness; Heart attacks; Martial arts; Injury prevention; Cardiology; Heart rate
: : Government shutdowns
/: : Harvard Medical School; NAICS: 611310
: TAI CHI
: JULIE CORLISS Harvard Health Publications
: The Billings Gazette; Billings, Mont.
: 2023
: Oct 2, 2023
: Billings Gazette
: Billings, Mont.
/: United States, Billings, Mont.
: General Interest Periodicals--United States
ISSN: 2372-868X
e-ISSN: 2372-8698
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2871487348
URL: 
: Copyright Billings Gazette Oct 2, 2023
: 2023-10-03
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Broken Hearts and How to Heal Them; Modern medicine confirms what people have known for thousands of years: heartbreak is more than a metaphor.
: Foreman, Amanda. 
: A mere generation ago, "heartbreak" was an overused literary metaphor but not an actual medical event. The first person to recognize it as a genuine condition was a Japanese cardiologist named Hikaru Sato. In 1990, Dr. Sato identified the curious case of a female patient who displayed the symptoms of a heart attack while testing negative for it. He named it "Takotsubo Syndrome" after noticing that the left ventricle of her heart changed shape during the episode to resemble a takotsubo, a traditional octopus-trap. A Japanese study in 2001 not only confirmed Sato's identification of a sudden cardio event that mimics a heart attack but also highlighted the common factor of emotional distress in such patients. It had taken the medical profession 4,000 years to acknowledge what poets had been saying all along: Broken Heart Syndrome is real.
The heart has always been regarded as more than just a pump. The Sumerians of ancient Mesopotamia, now part of modern Iraq, understood it performed a physical function. But they also believed it was the source of all emotion, including love, happiness and despair. One of the first known references to "heartbreak" appears in a 17th century B.C. clay tablet containing a copy of "Atrahasis," a Babylonian epic poem that parallels the Old Testament story of Noah's Ark. The words "heart" and "break" are used to describe Atrahasis's pain at being unable to save people from their imminent doom.
The heart also played a dual mind-body role in ancient Chinese medicine. There was a great emphasis on the importance of emotional regulation, since an enraged or greedy heart was believed to affect other organs. The philosopher Confucius used the heart as an analogy for the perfect relationship between the king and his people: Harmony in the latter and obedience from the former were both essential.
In the West, the early Catholic Church adopted a more top-down approach to the heart and its emotional problems. Submitting to Christ was the only treatment for what St. Augustine described as the discomfort of the unquiet heart. Even then, the avoidance of heart "pain" was not always possible. For the 16th-century Spanish saint Teresa of Avila, the agonizing sensation of being pierced in the heart was the necessary proof she had received God's love.
By Shakespeare's era, the idea of dying for love had become a cliché, but the deadly effects of heartbreak were accepted without question. Grief and anguish kill several of Shakespeare's characters, including Lady Montague in "Romeo and Juliet," King Lear, and Desdemona's father in "Othello." Shame drives Enobarbus to will his heart to stop in "Antony and Cleopatra": "Throw my heart against the flint and hardness of my fault."
London parish clerks continued to list grief as a cause of death until the 19th century, by which time advances in medical science had produced more mechanical explanations for life's mysteries. In 1893, Daniel Hale Williams—founder of Provident Hospital in Chicago, the first Black-owned hospital in the U. S.—performed one of the earliest successful heart surgeries. He quite literally fixed the broken heart of a stabbing victim by sewing the pericardium or heart sac back together.
Nowadays, there are protocols for treating the coronary problem diagnosed by Dr. Sato. But although we can cure Broken Heart Syndrome, we still can't cure a broken heart.
Credit: By Amanda Foreman
: Heart attacks
: Broken Hearts and How to Heal Them; Modern medicine confirms what people have known for thousands of years: heartbreak is more than a metaphor.
: Foreman, Amanda
: Wall Street Journal (Online); New York, N.Y.
: 2023
: Sep 30, 2023
: Historically Speaking
: Life
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics
e-ISSN: 25749579
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2870188320
URL: 
: Copyright 2023 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2023-10-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
'Liver Doc' X account that busts medical myths suspended after Himalaya Wellness moves court; internet outrages
: New Delhi, Sept. 28 -- Social media platform 'X', formerly known as Twitter, has suspended the account of 'Liver Doc', operated by Dr Cyriac Abby Philips, which was known for busting medical myths online. The action came after Himalaya Wellness had approached the Bengaluru Civil Court seeking against him.
The court, in an ad-interim order issued on September 23, had restrained Dr Philips from posting anything defamatory against the complainant. The ex-parte order also directed X to withhold the Liver Doc account.
The matter has next been listed for hearing by the court on January 5, 2024.
Himalaya Wellness had approached the court after Dr Philips, in a post on X in August last year, had allegedly made defamatory remarks on Liv.52, a product of the company that is used by liver disease patients.
Exciting news! Mint is now on WhatsApp Channels. Subscribe today by clicking the link and stay updated with the latest financial insights!" Click here!
The company claimed before the court that the "derogatory statement and materials" against the product has substantially affected their business, as per the documents shared by Live Law.
"There is a need to issue ad-interim ex-parte injunction directing the party who is posting such materials to remove them at the earliest so as to minimise the damage caused," the plaintiff further noted.
Dr Philips, a known critic of Ayurveda and other traditional medicines, was also in the news last month after he condemned the World Health Organisation (WHO) for recognising the "benefits" of traditional medicines.
"For millions of people around the world, Traditional Medicine is their first stop for health and well-being. Which of these have you used? Acupuncture, Ayurveda, Herbal medicine, Homeopathy, Naturopathy, Osteopathy, Traditional Chinese medicine, Unani medicine," the WHO had posted.
Dr Philips was among those who condemned the global body, accusing it "patronising pseudoscientific garbage".
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT.
: Ayurvedic medicine; Liver
: India
: 'Liver Doc' X account that busts medical myths suspended after Himalaya Wellness moves court; internet outrages
: Mint; New Delhi
: 2023
: Sep 28, 2023
: HT Digital Streams Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2869630412
URL: 
: Copyright HT Digital Streams Limited Sep 28, 2023
: 2023-10-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
'Liver Doc' X account that busts medical myths suspended after Himalaya Wellness moves court
: New Delhi, Sept. 28 -- Social media platform 'X', formerly known as Twitter, has suspended the account of 'Liver Doc', operated by Dr Cyriac Abby Philips, which was known for busting medical myths online. The action came after Himalaya Wellness had approached the Bengaluru Civil Court seeking against him.
The court, in an ad-interim order issued on September 23, had restrained Dr Philips from posting anything defamatory against the complainant. The ex-parte order also directed X to withhold the Liver Doc account.
The matter has next been listed for hearing by the court on January 5, 2024.
Himalaya Wellness had approached the court after Dr Philips, in a post on X in August last year, had allegedly made defamatory remarks on Liv.52, a product of the company that is used by liver disease patients.
The company claimed before the court that the "derogatory statement and materials" against the product has substantially affected their business, as per the documents shared by Live Law.
"There is a need to issue ad-interim ex-parte injunction directing the party who is posting such materials to remove them at the earliest so as to minimise the damage caused," the plaintiff further noted.
Dr Philips, a known critic of Ayurveda and other traditional medicines, was also in the news last month after he condemned the World Health Organisation (WHO) for recognising the "benefits" of traditional medicines.
"For millions of people around the world, Traditional Medicine is their first stop for health and well-being. Which of these have you used? Acupuncture, Ayurveda, Herbal medicine, Homeopathy, Naturopathy, Osteopathy, Traditional Chinese medicine, Unani medicine," the WHO had posted.
Dr Philips was among those who condemned the global body, accusing it "patronizing pseudoscientific garbage".
Published by HT Digital Content Services with permission from MINT.
: Ayurvedic medicine; Liver
: India
: 'Liver Doc' X account that busts medical myths suspended after Himalaya Wellness moves court
: Mint; New Delhi
: 2023
: Sep 28, 2023
: HT Digital Streams Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2869622922
URL: 
: Copyright HT Digital Streams Limited Sep 28, 2023
: 2023-10-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Chinese city hunts for dozens of crocodiles
: Chinese media reported on Tuesday that more than 70 crocodiles had escaped after deluges in Guangdong province caused a lake at a crocodile farm to overflow.
Authorities asked residents around the city of Maoming to stay inside as the severity of deluges hampered the search for the reptiles.
What's the latest we know?
"Crocodiles are still in the water, and several government departments are working to catch them," the state-affiliated China National Radio (CNR) reported, citing the local agriculture office.
"The specific situation is still under investigation," CNR said, adding that the exact number of animals still on the loose was not known.
The newspaper Beijing News said emergency forces were sent to locate the escaped crocodiles with the help of sonar equipment.
Authorities said the high water levels had made the search difficult, and asked residents to stay indoors.
Footage showed responders in red uniforms searching flooded fields in rescue boats. In other images, crocodiles could be seen that had already been captured with their mouths and limbs tied together.
Bred for skin and meat
Crocodiles are bred in China for their skin as well as their meat, which is sometimes used in traditional Chinese medicine.
At least 69 grown crocodiles and six younger ones were kept at a farm near the lake that burst its banks, allowing the creatures to escape.
CNR also said the affected area was also home to a "crocodile theme park."
Source: DW - Deutsche Welle
: Crocodiles
: China
: China: Chinese city hunts for dozens of crocodiles
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Sep 15, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2864602035
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Sep 15, 2023
: 2023-09-14
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China/Vietnam: Chinese Medicinal Demand Fuels Earthworm Rush in Vietnam
: Practioners of traditional Chinese medicine use earthworms - dried to a powder or distilled in liquid - to treat fevers, arthritis, asthma and bronchitis. But overharvesting in China has nearly wiped out the country's earthworm population.
Now, hunters are poaching and purchasing earthworms unearthed in Vietnam, upsetting Vietnamese farmers who depend on them to keep their fields fertile and environment balanced.
The earthworm rush has plagued Vietnam's northern provinces, as poachers, driven by bounty offered by Chinese merchants, trespass private fields or fruit orchards to catch the invertebrate, the online VnExpress news outlet reported. Most of the hunters are Vietnamese, eager to cash in on the Chinese demand.
The rush is yet another marker in the sometimes fraught, centuries-long relationship between China and Vietnam, its largest trading partner. The two nations have long been locked in a territorial dispute over islands, fishing grounds, and drilling rights for oil and gas in the South China Sea.
Now, orange farmers in Hoa Binh province are on 24-hour alert to stop earthworm poachers, according to a VTC News report. The farmers have asked the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development to help. VOA Vietnamese contacted the ministry but received no response.
Catching earthworms is easy money for poachers, Vietnamnet newspaper reported, with each kilogram of wet earthworms fetching between $3 to $3.30. Some poachers can capture up to 100 to 120 kilograms of earthworms per night, earning hundreds of dollars, according to Vietnamnet.
Using a battery-powered device, the hunters use electric pulses to flush the earthworms above ground. They then gut and dry the earthworms before selling them to Chinese merchants, Vietnamnet said.
The practice has led to an extinction-level ecological disaster in China, where poachers now face a crackdown that has sent them to Vietnam.
Dilong have been overfished in China, so Chinese merchants have to look to Vietnam, Vo Tong Xuan, an agronomist who is also president of Nam Can Tho University, told VOA Vietnamese in a phone interview, referring to the Chinese name for the earthworm, which means earth dragon.
Biologist Nguyen Lan Hung, a professor at the Hanoi National University of Education and chief of the Vietnam Association of Biological Sciences, pointed to the earthworm's utility in traditional medicine to explain why they are valued.
During the anti-French independence war, our soldiers used to eat earthworms to treat malaria. Now, they are sourced to make cardiovascular or neurologic drugs, Hung told VOA by phone.
Both Xuan and Hung warned that earthworm electrocutions damage soil quality, crops and the overall ecosystem. Xuan emphasized the earthworm's role in keeping soil loose, porous and ultimately fertile.
With earthworms absent, soil becomes so compacted [that] roots find it hard to absorb water, Xuan said. Crop yields deteriorate over time, while poorer water retention may result in inundation.
He added that the electric current also destroys microorganisms essential for tree growth.
Hung hailed the earthworm as the natural plowman" and warned that the electrocutions will eventually lead to their obliteration. Although earthworm eggs are abundant, their hatchings cannot keep up with the rate of electrocution harvesting, he said.
While the Vietnamese cannot ban the traders, Xuan said farmers should resist the temptation of profiting from Chinese market demand.
He would like Vietnam to criminalize the gathering of earthworms with electricity. For now, detained poachers are released after authorities confiscate their devices and catches, according to VTC News. Those detained must also pledge to not electrocute more earthworms in the future, VTC News said.
Nguyen Quang A, founder of the Hanoi-based Institute of Development Studies and an outspoken government critic, told VOA Vietnamese the earthworm situation certainly feeds into the anti-China narrative.
We've seen such incidents happen from time to time in the last couple of decades, one after another, he said.
In the past, Chinese demand for buffalo hooves, leeches, cashew leaves and young areca nuts has caused environmental damage in Vietnam.
Nguyen Quang A said to quell toxic anti-Chinese sentiment, the government should initiate talks with China to stop sourcing from Vietnam to meet sudden market demand.
Hung recommended commercial farming of earthworms to prevent poaching, based on Vietnam's experience with raising compost worms for use as livestock feed. - VOA
: Farmers; Poaching; Worms; Tropical diseases
: China; Vietnam
: Quang A, Nguyen
: China/Vietnam: Chinese Medicinal Demand Fuels Earthworm Rush in Vietnam
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Aug 24, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2855098035
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Aug 24, 2023
: 2023-08-23
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Going local: the quest to support heritage and home-grown businesses
: Kerk, Corinne. 
: WHEN Stephen Tong chanced upon an advertisement to lease a conserved wet market building in Queenstown, he was intrigued. He immediately drove over to see it and fell in love with the premises and its neighbourhood.
Known for its vaulted ceiling, the building at 38 Margaret Drive is the site of the former Commonwealth Avenue Wet Market and Food Centre that was built in 1956. It is the only remaining market in Singapore constructed by the Singapore Improvement Trust.
Before long, the chief executive officer of Bethesda Medical found himself signing a lease for the medical group to become the master tenant of the building, now called Margaret Market. He had visions of using "this lovely and distinctive conserved building" to try to bring back the feel of the older neighbourhood space, provide a venue for small local businesses to ply their trade, and bring people together.
And so, Margaret Market was born. Opened last month, the two-storey, 1,800 square metre building is billed as a lifestyle destination marketplace that is local-centric and supportive of boutique Singapore brands, home bakers and cooks, and first-time vendors. It will also house a Bethesda Medical clinic, as well as a Gymm Boxx, a 24-hour fitness facility.
"While working in the Ministry of Manpower's onboarding centres during the Covid-19 pandemic, we met migrant workers who were displaced from their familiar environments," recalls Dr Tong. He felt there were similarities with the nearby Tanglin Halt estate, where en-bloc redevelopment disrupted old trades and displaced elderly residents from their neighbourhoods.
"We felt there (was) an opportunity to help the old trades and residents assimilate into the new environment through this project, as well as an opportunity to help the community," he says, adding that Bethesda Medical will provide free monthly health screenings for the elderly from September.
He is not alone in this desire to support local and heritage businesses.
Willing supporters Going by findings from a recent American Express (Amex) survey, it would appear that most Singaporeans are supportive of local businesses. But while nine in 10 Singapore consumers shop at home-grown businesses, the survey also found that only half agree that supporting local is very important.
There are also notable generational differences, with 63 per cent of baby boomers (ages 58 and up) agreeing, compared to only 44 per cent of Generation Zs (ages 21 to 25), 57 per cent of millennials (ages 26 to 41) and 56 per cent of Generation Xs (ages 42 to 57).
"There is more room to galvanise support for local brands, especially among the younger generations, who tend to see less importance in supporting local, compared to the older generations," says Marlin Brown, country manager for Amex Singapore.
On its part, the payments company will encourage supporting local businesses with its fourth annual Shop Small campaign. Card members who register their cards can receive cash credits for eligible purchases at more than 3,500 participating businesses from now till Aug 31.
To rally more support this year, Amex is also organising a Shop Small Pop-Up Market at Suntec City from Sep 25 to Oct 1. The pop-up will feature 16 home-grown businesses, as well as limited edition merchandise designed by Singapore artists including Esther Goh and Isaac Liang.
Back to the future But even with a desire to support local enterprises, the execution is not so simple, especially when it comes to heritage businesses.
While researching the concept for Margaret Market, Dr Tong's team spent weeks walking around older estates -- such as the soon-to-be-demolished Tanglin Halt -- and speaking to trade owners to understand their needs and insecurities about moving to a new estate.
"We also spoke to residents and those in the community to find out what kinds of services and trades they would like to have in the new space," Dr Tong says.
He and his team tried reaching out to local brands through friends and families who might know people in various trades, via property agents, and by walking around different neighbourhoods, such as Joo Chiat. They talked to shop owners to suss out their interest in Margaret Market, and went online to try and contact brands by various means.
They received "a lot of rejections" as many businesses were worried about moving to an entirely new building instead of an established mall, especially when traffic and footfall at the hawker centre next door was perceived to be low during their site surveys.
Eventually, Fung Onn Medical Store was persuaded to move to Margaret Market from Tanglin Halt. The business was started in 1964 by Chee Ah Kiaw and provides customers with traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) products and services, as well as other proprietary medication and healthcare products.
"Most people will say TCM is a sunset business, but being niche and differentiated by the type of services we provide is also an opportunity for us," says Chee Kim Boon, the founder's son.
Reinventions needed For Jacob Cheong, the need to reinvent heritage businesses like East Inspirations, which was founded by his father, is absolutely crucial.
His father, known as PK, was a machinist in a factory before he started Far East Lamp Arts in 1985. It made lampshades and converted vases into lamps, and sold its products to retailers in the Orchard and Tanglin Road areas. It also supplied hotels and refurbished their lamps.
But as manufacturing became too expensive and difficult, the senior Cheong turned to retail and incorporated his passion for oriental handicraft and antiques into the business. This gave birth to East Inspirations in the early 90s, which operates from a shophouse in Chinatown. Today, it deals mainly in oriental antiques as well as vintage and modern items inspired by Chinese culture. It also conducts tea sessions as a means to share Chinese tea culture with guests.
"Reinventing for almost three decades is how my father managed to keep the business going," says Jacob Cheong. "But most importantly, even as we reinvent, we also need to stick to a core, so we do not lose our character. For us, that will be Chinese culture and antiques, with almost everything we do in the store inspired by our culture."
Despite graduating with a degree in business management and being part of a local bank's graduate programme, Jacob Cheong gave up his chance for a cushy banking job to help his father. He expanded the business' digital presence and, through social media, amplified the shop's brand and reputation as a vintage specialist.
Although business has been volatile and challenging, given rising rent and other business costs as well as changing consumer tastes and habits, Jacob Cheong believes people are seeking unique experiences with a local flavour.
"I don't think things will get easier, but it will definitely get more interesting," he says, pointing to an increasing number of tools traditionally afforded only to bigger companies becoming more accessible to small businesses, including point-of-sales systems, customer relationship management programmes, and logistics solutions.
"It's really up to the proprietor's creativity on how to tap all these resources to compete with the behemoths."
In addition, there is a need to find synergy between big and small players to create a win-win dynamic, he feels. "Small businesses like ours definitely benefit from the exposure that we are otherwise unlikely to get, or find very expensive to achieve," he notes, citing East Inspirations' participation in Amex's Shop Small campaign as an example.
Community spirit For first-time vendors, support from the local community is key.
Vernetta Fong, owner of Urban Folks, has been doing a roaring trade in the weeks since opening at Margaret Market. Her new cafe features Aussie-inspired jaffles (closed toasted sandwiches) and acai bowls.
At a busy Sunday lunchtime when The Business Times visited, the market was packed and people were tucking into its jaffles at every table.
"The response from the community has been incredibly heartwarming," says Fong, who decided to start her business at Margaret Market as it draws on the farmers' market concept she experienced while studying in Melbourne.
"It's truly wonderful to witness the open and receptive nature of the people here, embracing our offerings with enthusiasm. Even the older generation has been really supportive and adventurous in trying out new food options, which has been really amazing."
She is optimistic about the future for home-grown businesses, as she believes consumers are "increasingly drawn to the stories behind products and services". And like Jacob Cheong, Fong says small businesses can leverage technology and social media to reach a broader audience and create close connections with customers.
Also at Margaret Market is Margie (as in, the little sister of the market), a new bistro bar that hopes to bring liveliness to the venue by catering to the evening crowd and championing local flavours.
There are beers from local craft breweries and tacos with a local twist, such as the grilled "chomp chomp" chicken tacos inspired by the famous chicken wings at Serangoon Gardens, and otah croquettes.
"Our kitchen will also be open to collaborations with local chefs or home cooks, providing them with a platform to showcase their menus on a periodic and rotational basis," says owner Ann Phun Siew Chen.
Apart from putting local brands in the spotlight, Dr Tong wishes to create a sense of pride and identity within the community. "We hope that Margaret Market will be able to inspire other places and communities with similar initiatives that support and uplift local businesses."
: Generations; Customer relationship management; Small business; Generational differences; Community; Consumers; Chinese medicine; Baby boomers; Local businesses; Chinese culture; Social networks; Cultural heritage
: : Customer relationship management Small business Consumers Local businesses Social networks
: Singapore
: Going local: the quest to support he ritage and home-grown businesses
: Kerk, Corinne
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: Aug 4, 2023
: Lifestyle
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2845435357
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-11-27
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Going local: the quest to support heritage and home-grown businesses
: sphcomsg, corinne. 
: WHEN Stephen Tong chanced upon an advertisement to lease a conserved wet market building in Queenstown, he was intrigued. He immediately drove over to see it and fell in love with the premises and its neighbourhood.
Known for its vaulted ceiling, the building at 38 Margaret Drive is the site of the former Commonwealth Avenue Wet Market and Food Centre that was built in 1956. It is the only remaining market in Singapore constructed by the Singapore Improvement Trust.
Before long, the chief executive officer of Bethesda Medical found himself signing a lease for the medical group to become the master tenant of the building, now called Margaret Market. He had visions of using "this lovely and distinctive conserved building" to try to bring back the feel of the older neighbourhood space, provide a venue for small local businesses to ply their trade, and bring people together.
And so, Margaret Market was born. Opened last month, the two-storey, 1,800 square metre building is billed as a lifestyle destination marketplace that is local-centric and supportive of boutique Singapore brands, home bakers and cooks, and first-time vendors. It will also house a Bethesda Medical clinic, as well as a Gymm Boxx, a 24-hour fitness facility.
"While working in the Ministry of Manpower's onboarding centres during the Covid-19 pandemic, we met migrant workers who were displaced from their familiar environments," recalls Dr Tong. He felt there were similarities with the nearby Tanglin Halt estate, where en-bloc redevelopment disrupted old trades and displaced elderly residents from their neighbourhoods.
"We felt there (was) an opportunity to help the old trades and residents assimilate into the new environment through this project, as well as an opportunity to help the community," he says, adding that Bethesda Medical will provide free monthly health screenings for the elderly from September.
He is not alone in this desire to support local and heritage businesses.
Willing supporters Going by findings from a recent American Express (Amex) survey, it would appear that most Singaporeans are supportive of local businesses. But while nine in 10 Singapore consumers shop at home-grown businesses, the survey also found that only half agree that supporting local is very important.
There are also notable generational differences, with 63 per cent of baby boomers (ages 58 and up) agreeing, compared to only 44 per cent of Generation Zs (ages 21 to 25), 57 per cent of millennials (ages 26 to 41) and 56 per cent of Generation Xs (ages 42 to 57).
"There is more room to galvanise support for local brands, especially among the younger generations, who tend to see less importance in supporting local, compared to the older generations," says Marlin Brown, country manager for Amex Singapore.
On its part, the payments company will encourage supporting local businesses with its fourth annual Shop Small campaign. Card members who register their cards can receive cash credits for eligible purchases at more than 3,500 participating businesses from now till Aug 31.
To rally more support this year, Amex is also organising a Shop Small Pop-Up Market at Suntec City from Sep 25 to Oct 1. The pop-up will feature 16 home-grown businesses, as well as limited edition merchandise designed by Singapore artists including Esther Goh and Isaac Liang.
Back to the future But even with a desire to support local enterprises, the execution is not so simple, especially when it comes to heritage businesses.
While researching the concept for Margaret Market, Dr Tong's team spent weeks walking around older estates -- such as the soon-to-be-demolished Tanglin Halt -- and speaking to trade owners to understand their needs and insecurities about moving to a new estate.
"We also spoke to residents and those in the community to find out what kinds of services and trades they would like to have in the new space," Dr Tong says.
He and his team tried reaching out to local brands through friends and families who might know people in various trades, via property agents, and by walking around different neighbourhoods, such as Joo Chiat. They talked to shop owners to suss out their interest in Margaret Market, and went online to try and contact brands by various means.
They received "a lot of rejections" as many businesses were worried about moving to an entirely new building instead of an established mall, especially when traffic and footfall at the hawker centre next door was perceived to be low during their site surveys.
Eventually, Fung Onn Medical Store was persuaded to move to Margaret Market from Tanglin Halt. The business was started in 1964 by Chee Ah Kiaw and provides customers with traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) products and services, as well as other proprietary medication and healthcare products.
"Most people will say TCM is a sunset business, but being niche and differentiated by the type of services we provide is also an opportunity for us," says Chee Kim Boon, the founder's son.
Reinventions needed For Jacob Cheong, the need to reinvent heritage businesses like East Inspirations, which was founded by his father, is absolutely crucial.
His father, known as PK, was a machinist in a factory before he started Far East Lamp Arts in 1985. It made lampshades and converted vases into lamps, and sold its products to retailers in the Orchard and Tanglin Road areas. It also supplied hotels and refurbished their lamps.
But as manufacturing became too expensive and difficult, the senior Cheong turned to retail and incorporated his passion for oriental handicraft and antiques into the business. This gave birth to East Inspirations in the early 90s, which operates from a shophouse in Chinatown. Today, it deals mainly in oriental antiques as well as vintage and modern items inspired by Chinese culture. It also conducts tea sessions as a means to share Chinese tea culture with guests.
"Reinventing for almost three decades is how my father managed to keep the business going," says Jacob Cheong. "But most importantly, even as we reinvent, we also need to stick to a core, so we do not lose our character. For us, that will be Chinese culture and antiques, with almost everything we do in the store inspired by our culture."
Despite graduating with a degree in business management and being part of a local bank's graduate programme, Jacob Cheong gave up his chance for a cushy banking job to help his father. He expanded the business' digital presence and, through social media, amplified the shop's brand and reputation as a vintage specialist.
Although business has been volatile and challenging, given rising rent and other business costs as well as changing consumer tastes and habits, Jacob Cheong believes people are seeking unique experiences with a local flavour.
"I don't think things will get easier, but it will definitely get more interesting," he says, pointing to an increasing number of tools traditionally afforded only to bigger companies becoming more accessible to small businesses, including point-of-sales systems, customer relationship management programmes, and logistics solutions.
"It's really up to the proprietor's creativity on how to tap all these resources to compete with the behemoths."
In addition, there is a need to find synergy between big and small players to create a win-win dynamic, he feels. "Small businesses like ours definitely benefit from the exposure that we are otherwise unlikely to get, or find very expensive to achieve," he notes, citing East Inspirations' participation in Amex's Shop Small campaign as an example.
Community spirit For first-time vendors, support from the local community is key.
Vernetta Fong, owner of Urban Folks, has been doing a roaring trade in the weeks since opening at Margaret Market. Her new cafe features Aussie-inspired jaffles (closed toasted sandwiches) and acai bowls.
At a busy Sunday lunchtime when The Business Times visited, the market was packed and people were tucking into its jaffles at every table.
"The response from the community has been incredibly heartwarming," says Fong, who decided to start her business at Margaret Market as it draws on the farmers' market concept she experienced while studying in Melbourne.
"It's truly wonderful to witness the open and receptive nature of the people here, embracing our offerings with enthusiasm. Even the older generation has been really supportive and adventurous in trying out new food options, which has been really amazing."
She is optimistic about the future for home-grown businesses, as she believes consumers are "increasingly drawn to the stories behind products and services". And like Jacob Cheong, Fong says small businesses can leverage technology and social media to reach a broader audience and create close connections with customers.
Also at Margaret Market is Margie (as in, the little sister of the market), a new bistro bar that hopes to bring liveliness to the venue by catering to the evening crowd and championing local flavours.
There are beers from local craft breweries and tacos with a local twist, such as the grilled "chomp chomp" chicken tacos inspired by the famous chicken wings at Serangoon Gardens, and otah croquettes.
"Our kitchen will also be open to collaborations with local chefs or home cooks, providing them with a platform to showcase their menus on a periodic and rotational basis," says owner Ann Phun Siew Chen.
Apart from putting local brands in the spotlight, Dr Tong wishes to create a sense of pride and identity within the community. "We hope that Margaret Market will be able to inspire other places and communities with similar initiatives that support and uplift local businesses."
: Generations; Customer relationship management; Small business; Generational differences; Community; Consumers; Chinese medicine; Baby boomers; Local businesses; Chinese culture; Social networks; Cultural heritage
: : Customer relationship management Small business Consumers Local businesses Social networks
: Singapore
: Going local: the quest to support he ritage and home-grown businesses
: sphcomsg, corinne
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: Aug 4, 2023
: Lifestyle
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2845435328
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-11-27
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Singapore Paincare brings Western treatment, TCM together in new Chinese JV
: Megan. 
: MEDICAL services group Singapore Paincare Holdings (SPCH) is partnering Chinese community hospital operator Puxiang Healthcare to bring its specialist pain-care treatments to China and widen its pool of patients.
The Catalist-listed group has signed a non-exhaustive, non-binding term sheet with Beijing Puxiang Hospital Investment Management Co (BPHIM), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Puxiang Healthcare, to set up a joint venture (JV) company, PuXin Pain Technology Hospital Management Company. SPCH will own 49 per cent of the JV, with BPHIM holding the remaining 51 per cent.
SPCH executive director and chief executive Dr Bernard Lee said on Tuesday (Jul 4) that the move will enable the group to capture a whole new market.
It will also allow the company to offer its proprietary pain-care treatments alongside the existing traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) pain treatments in Puxiang Healthcare's 15 community hospitals, he said.
Under this agreement, BPHIM will identify a team of about 30 doctors to be trained to deliver SPCH's treatment regimen and methodologies. This will then be offered in Puxiang Healthcare's community hospitals in Beijing, Hebei and Tianjin.
SPCH said this partnership -- its first overseas foray -- will raise its profile in the Chinese market, which has been mostly untapped by the group.
Only about 1 per cent to 2 per cent of SPCH's medical tourists come from China, Dr Lee said. Most of the group's foreign patients, which accounted for about 30 per cent of its patients before the pandemic, come from Indonesia, Malaysia and Vietnam.
After the borders reopened, medical tourists now make up about 20 per cent of SPCH's patients, he added. Pointing to its large and rapidly ageing population, Dr Lee described China as a "compelling" country for SPCH's expansion plans.
The proposed JV comes just weeks after SPCH on Jun 14 announced that subsidiary Singapore Paincare Capital will invest 40 million yuan (S$7.6 million) for 2.8 million new Series A+ preferred shares in Puxiang Healthcare. This translates to a 2.26 per cent stake in the Chinese hospital operator.
Working with an established company such as Puxiang Healthcare, which has operated hospitals in China since 2019, lowers the barrier of entry for SPCH into the market, said Dr Lee.
Puxiang's network of community hospitals also enables the group to offer its Western treatment interventions to a patient pool that may not be familiar with these forms of care, he added.
"We will be getting the pain doctors to come in (for training) and Puxiang will lead the team as we transfer our intellectual property and management skills... to better provide pain care outside TCM," he said.
Dr Lee said the joint venture will be "favourable" in terms of revenue growth, as the hospital operator has an established network of hospitals and intends to add more.
Xu Hua Yong, president of Puxiang Healthcare, said the operator's year-end target is to run more than 20 hospitals in total.
The new hospitals will also send doctors for training under this JV, said Xu.
The transfer of medical knowledge may later be applied both ways. Dr Lee hopes that SPCH's local TCM arm will eventually be able to tap into Puxiang's expertise and upgrade its offerings.
"This (JV) is the first step in our collaboration," he said.
SPCH's shares closed flat at S$0.176 on Thursday, after the company lifted its trading halt.
: Pain; Medical tourism; Chinese medicine; Joint ventures; Hospitals; Physicians
: : Joint ventures Hospitals Physicians; : 62211 :‎ General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: China; Beijing China; Singapore
: 62211: General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: Singapore Paincare brings Western treatment, TCM together in new Chinese JV
: Megan
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: Jul 7, 2023
: COMPANIES & MARKETS
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2833913772
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-11-28
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
More power to yoga: From yin yoga to acro yoga, the traditional Indian practice is going places
: Shah, Shubhangi. 
: Yoga is probably India’s top cultural export. Having originated in India thousands of years ago, this mind-body-soul practice has travelled far and wide, transcending the country’s borders and, hence, transforming into newer forms. As the world is gearing up for the ninth International Day of Yoga on June 21, let us explore some international variants of this traditional Indian practice.
Gym essentials
If there is a form of yoga that has truly made its way to the gyms, it is power yoga. Rooted in the traditional Ashtanga yoga, power yoga is said to have originated in the United States. Los Angeles-based Bryan Kest and New York-based Beryl Bender Birch, who had studied under Ashtanga guru K Pattabhi Jois, are often credited with the invention of this yoga form.
Also read: Leos to Scorpions: Cheers to these whiskies according to your Zodiac sign
A more vigorous and less meditative form, “power yoga involves burning a lot of calories in a workout,” says Sarvesh Shashi, CEO and founder of SARVA Yoga, a Chennai-headquartered one-on-one virtual personal training platform. It involves flowing from one pose to the next at a fast pace rather than approaching each separately. It is safe to say, power yoga can be attributed to bringing yoga to the gyms. “You can burn up to 400 calories in just one workout. And who does not want to burn calories that fast?” says Shashi over the popularity of power yoga.
Although popular in the west, many yoga practitioners and gurus hold a tough stance. “India’s traditional yoga focuses on physical postures, breathing exercises, meditation and spiritual development. But regarding power yoga, I have concerns about its overemphasis on physical strength and fitness, potentially neglecting the spiritual and meditative aspects of yoga,” says Hansaji Yogendra, director of The Yoga Institute, a Mumbai-headquartered non-profit yoga centre.
A quiet affair
The opposite of power yoga is yin yoga. As evident from the moniker, it is based on the Chinese principle of yin. While yang represents the more vigorous kinds—Ashtanga, Vinyasa, power, etc, yin is the slower kind, where the emphasis is on stretching the deep connective tissue. Martial arts expert and Taoist yoga guru Paulie Zink is often attributed as the founder of the form. It developed somewhere around the 1970s, as per reports.
Not just outside India, “yin yoga is quite popular with us as well. It is especially popular among those practitioners who like a quiet, contemplative practice,” says Shashi. Since it is inspired by traditional Chinese medicine and was invented by a martial arts practitioner, “you can imagine the intense focus on the poses. The holds in yin yoga are longer and that makes it more challenging,” the expert elaborates.
Yin yoga is perfect for anyone looking for a deeper, meditative practice as long as “there are no serious injuries, chronic disorders, recent surgeries or pregnancies,” Shashi adds.
Team spirit
This one requires a partner. As the name suggests, ‘acro yoga’ is a mix of yoga, acrobatics, and often elements of Thai massage, too. It was developed in 2003 by Jenny Sauer-Klein and Jason Nemer, a dancer and a yoga practitioner, respectively. The duo describes the form as “a movement practice that combines the balance of yoga, the fitness of acrobatics and the healing potential of human connection”. On their website, they say practitioners come for all kinds of reasons—“as a long-term solution to chronic pain; to increase mobility, lose weight and gain muscle mass; to make friends or deepen relationships”.
It is practised with a partner, and at times, a third person. Hence, the person who does the lifting becomes the base, the one being lifted is the flyer and the third person is for assisting and to ensure safety.
Acro yoga involves two kinds of practices—solar and lunar. While practising the former, both the base and the flyer are active, making it a powerful, dynamic and playful practice. Lunar, on the other hand, is more therapeutic and involves elements of Thai massage, making it more about healing and letting go.
Also read: Father’s Day Escapes: 6 tailored travel adventures for every dad
However, it “involves partner-based acrobatic movements and sequences, which I believe may overshadow the deeper aspects of yoga,” says Yogendra. “Traditional yoga is a personal journey of self-discovery and self-reliance, and the dependency on a partner in acro yoga may hinder the individual’s connection with their own inner self. The complex and physically demanding movements in acro yoga can pose a risk of injury if practised without proper guidance and precautions,” she adds.
Warming up
Then there is ‘hot yoga’, practised in a hot environment, somewhere around 27-38°C. While this form and Bikram yoga, developed by disgraced teacher Bikram Choudhury, are often used interchangeably, differences exist. Long story short, every Bikram yoga is hot yoga, but the opposite is not true.
Doing yoga in a heated environment is challenging, but it comes with its share of benefits. Research suggests that men can burn up to 460 calories, and women 330, during a Bikram yoga session of 90 minutes. It could also have a positive impact on heart health, as suggested by a 2014 study, according to which, a session of hot yoga can make the heart pump at the same rate as a brisk walk. It could also help with diabetes. A study published in 2013 found that Bikram yoga helped with improving glucose tolerance in obese older adults. However, the impact was found to be less on young and lean adults.
However, there can be some concerns. “In hot yoga, there is often an excessive emphasis on external heat. The heated room temperatures can stress the body and potentially lead to dehydration or overexertion,” says Yogendra.
It’s in the air
“Aerial yoga is hands down the most popular form of yoga amongst beginners,” says SARVA Yoga’s Shashi. “It is also admittedly quite an enjoyable form of yoga. The feeling of defying gravity in a safe space is exhilarating. It is gaining popularity rapidly,” he adds.
As the name suggests, aerial yoga is practised suspended from a hammock or yoga swing. Christopher Harrison, a dancer with a background in acrobatics, is credited with creating the form in New York. Essentially, it is a combination of traditional yoga, acrobatics, pilates and dance, making it a fun and fluid.
“The biggest benefit of aerial yoga is that it helps decompress the spine, along with with relaxation. At the same time, the more intense asanas (poses) can build core and lower body strength. It also makes deep stretches accessible to beginners,” explains Shashi. However, “those who feel dizzy very easily or feel afraid while being off the ground should try it with caution,” he says.
Pregnant women and those with vertigo are recommended not to do this form.
Water world
Yoga is also performed in water and, hence, is called aqua yoga. “Aqua yoga offers several benefits including reduced impact on joints. Practising yoga in water provides a supportive environment, reducing strain on the joints and offering resistance to challenge the muscles in a unique way,” says Yogendra.
Other benefits include “improved flexibility and range of motion, increased muscle strength and endurance, enhanced relaxation and stress relief, and better balance and stability,” adds Shashi.
Despite its benefits, it may not be suitable for everyone and “individuals with certain medical conditions cannot practise it,” says Yogendra. Also, “it should be practised under the guidance of a coach and should be avoided if there’s anxiety/stress related to water bodies,” adds Shashi.
A global phenomenon
Yin Yoga
It is based on the Chinese principle of yin. It is suitable for those looking to balance their vigorous workouts with deeper practice. American martial arts expert and Taoist yoga guru Paulie Zink is
often attributed as the founder of the form
Acro Yoga
It is a mix of yoga, acrobatics and often elements of Thai massage. It is a fun workout and is done with a partner. It was developed in 2003 by Jenny Sauer-Klein and Jason Nemer, a dancer and a yoga practitioner, respectively, in the US
Aqua Yoga
This form is performed in water. While some find it harder, others say the medium acts differently than floor and air. However, it is easy on the joints, making it ideal for those with joint pain
Hot Yoga
It is practised in a hot environment, somewhere around 27-38°C. Men can burn up to 460 calories and women 330 with this form of yoga. It can also have a positive impact on heart health and help fight diabetes, say reports
Power Yoga
Rooted in the traditional Ashtanga yoga, this form of yoga is said to have originated in the US. A more vigorous and less meditative form, power yoga involves burning a lot of calories in a workout. A gym favourite
Aerial Yoga
It is the most popular form of yoga among beginners. It is practised suspended from a hammock or yoga swing. Christopher Harrison, a dancer with a background in acrobatics, is credited with creating the form in New York
: Diabetes; Physical fitness; Taoism; Stress; Power; Popularity; Martial arts; Yoga; Calories
: New York; United States--US; India
: More power to yoga: From yin yoga to acro yoga, the traditional Indian practice is going places
: Shah, Shubhangi
: Financial Express; New Delhi
: 2023
: Jun 18, 2023
: Athena Information Solutions Pvt. Ltd.
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2826871093
URL: 
: Copyright 2023 IE Online Media Services Pvt. Ltd., distributed by Contify.com
: 2023-06-18
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China-Namibia: Remarks by Chinese Ambassador to Namibia Zhao Weiping at the Opening Ceremony of the Free Medical Check for Namibian Children Themed with Warm Children's Hearts, a China-Africa joint action
: Your Excellency Mme. Monica Geingos,
First Lady of the Republic of Namibia,
Hon. Minister Yvonne Dausab,
Hon. Minister Utoni Nujoma,
Hon. Deputy Minister Alexia Manombe-Ncube,
Hon. Joseph Uapingene,
All the senior officials of the Namibian Government,
Principal Helen Siamwanda and the staff and dear children of Namibia Children's Home,
Professor Huang Shuwei and all the Medical Experts from China,
Representatives of the Chinese Community,
Friends from the Media,
Distinguished guests,Ladies and gentlemen,
Good morning!
I have the great honor to welcome all of you to attend this loving event for the Namibian children which is co-hosted by the Chinese Embassy and the First Lady's Office of the Republic of Namibia.
This event is an important part of the program of For the Health of Orphans in Africa themed Warm Children's Hearts, a China-Africa joint action which was jointly initiated by Professor Peng Liyuan, wife to the President of the People's Republic of China and the Organization of African First Ladies for Development, with the strong support of Her Excellency Mme. Monica Geingos, First Lady of the Republic of Namibia and President of the Organization of African First Ladies for Development.
According to this program, Chinese Embassies and the First Lady's Offices in over 50 African countries will jointly host free medical checks and gift presentation for the children in local charity institutions on the occasion of the International Children's Day so as to bring warmth and love to the children and contribute to their health and happiness.
This event here in Namibia is of special significance because of the profound traditional friendship between our two countries. I am deeply grateful to Her Excellency Mme. Geingos for her important guidance and personal devotion in making this event a reality. Her Excellency is so kind to make herself available with us today out of her busy schedule and will honor us with her keynote speech later. I wish to take this opportunity to extend my sincere thanks to Her Excellency for all the valuable support she has rendered us.
It's also my great honor that Hon. Yvonne Dausab, Hon. Utoni Nujoma, Hon. Alexia Manombe-Ncube and Hon. Joseph Uapingene can kindly join us today. I wish to thank all the Honorable Ministers, Deputy Ministers and other senior Government officials for their gracious presence as well as thank the Ministry of Gender Equality, Poverty Eradication and Social Welfare, Ministry of Health and Social Services, Ministry of International Relations and Cooperation, Ministry of Home Affairs, Immigration, Safety and Security, and Namibian Embassy in China for their support and contribution.
I am highly appreciative of the help given by the Principal and staff of the Namibia Children's Home. My thanks also go to all the children for their participation and to their custodians for their support. I thank all the distinguished guests and the friends from the media who are here to witness this event.
Distinguished guests, Professor Peng Liyuan cares deeply about the healthy growth of children. Not only Chinese children are in her thoughts, but also children in other parts of the world including Africa. Professor Peng has a special attachment to Africa and the Organization of African First Ladies for Development. In 2020, it was with the initiative of Professor Peng that the Chinese government had donated anti-COVID-19 supplies through the Organization of African First Ladies for Development to the women, children and adolescents in Africa.
This program of Warm Children's Hearts, a China-Africa joint action has shown once again Professor Peng's deep care for the health and well-being of African children. She particularly asked us to prepare love parcels for the children in addition to the free medical check. Professor Peng's love for African children is a vivid demonstration of the Chinese people's fraternal friendship to the African People.
To ensure the success of the event, with the support of relevant Ministries of the Chinese government and Zhejiang provincial government, the Chinese Embassy has invited a medical team of 10 doctors respectively from Zhejiang Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine and Children's Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine to visit Namibia specifically for the purpose of carrying out the medical checks. The medical experts are experienced in cardiology, paediatrics, stomatology, ophthalmology and dermatology, and they will perform medical checks for over 100 kids in Namibia Children's Home this afternoon and evening.
I am very happy to tell all distinguished guests that the head of the Chinese medical team Professor Huang Shuwei is also my high school classmate. It is indeed a happy coincidence. We haven't seen each other for many years. I wish to thank Namibia for bringing us together again.
Distinguished guests, this year marks the 60th anniversary for the Chinese government to dispatch medical teams to Africa. Over the past six decades, Chinese medical teams have not only provided a rich variety of medical services for people of African countries which got a wide acclaim, but also promoted the friendship between China and African countries.
His Excellency Xi Jinping, President of the People's Republic of China, pays great personal attention to China's international medical aid missions. Earlier this year, he replied to a letter from the Chinese medical team in the Central African Republic and encouraged them to serve local people with high proficiency.
Here in Namibia, since 1996, with the support of the Namibian government and the Ministry of Health and Social Services in particular, a total of 15 Chinese medical teams from Zhejiang Provincial Hospital of Chinese Medicine have come to work in Katutura State Hospital to provide the general public with traditional Chinese medical services such as acupuncture and massage, with around 9,000 patients treated in 2022 alone.
I wish to take this opportunity to sincerely thank the visiting Chinese medical team headed by Professor Huang Shuwei and the Chinese medical team based in Katutura State Hospital.
Distinguished guests, this event will last only one day and the number of kids to be benefited is limited. However, our commitment to the health and well-being of the Namibian children will be long and firm. I hope and believe that China-Namibia cooperation in the area of health and children's well-being will continue to expand. Starting from here, the Chinese Embassy will further strengthen its cooperation with Namibia Children's Home and other local charity institutions in future.
In conclusion, I wish this event a complete success, and good health to Her Excellency Mme. Geingos and everyone present here today.
Thank you.
Source: Ministry of Foreign Affairs, People's Republic of China
: Teams; First ladies; Cooperation; International relations; Diplomatic & consular services; Children & youth; Friendship; Hospitals
: : International relations Hospitals; : 92812 :‎ International Affairs 62211 :‎ General Medical and Surgical Hospitals 62231 :‎ Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals
: Namibia; Africa; China
: Peng Liyuan
: 92812: International Affairs; 62211: General Medical and Surgical Hospitals; 62231: Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals
: China-Namibia: Remarks by Chinese Ambassador to Namibia Zhao Weiping at the Opening Ceremony of the Free Medical Check for Namibian Children Themed with Warm Children's Hearts, a China-Africa joint action
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Jun 8, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bang kok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2823144686
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jun 8, 2023
: 2023-11-28
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
AstraZeneca defies geopolitics with China bet: Ageing population, burgeoning biotechnology sector and rising spirit of innovation present large opportunities
: Kuchler, Hannah; Olcott, Eleanor. 
: AstraZeneca's chief executive returned from a trip to China exuberant about an "explosion" of biotech companies in the country and the potential for his business to deliver drugs discovered there to the world. Pascal Soriot said the market was "completely open" for pharmaceutical investment. "It's hard to not be impressed by the progress that has been made in China over the past few years." While the G7 has warned of the threat of "economic coercion" from China and the US is scrutinising Chinese investment in its biotech sector, AstraZeneca is focused on capitalising on its position in China as the largest overseas pharma company by sales. "I think when you are a global company like AstraZeneca you have always to cope with geopolitical risk and you have to try to manage that without getting too involved," Michel Demaré, the chair, said. As long as there were no legal or sanctions issues, "you just try to take care of your patients and try to reach the most patients you can". Many drugmakers are tempted by China's large, ageing population, which is increasingly affected by chronic diseases partly caused by smoking, pollution, and more westernised diets. While vaccine nationalism meant China spurned foreign jabs in favour of its less effective ones, it is open to other innovative drugs. AstraZeneca believes the opportunity lies not just in Chinese patients but in the country's scientists. "The innovation power has changed," said Demaré. "It is no more 'copy, paste'. They really have the power to innovate and put all the money in. There's a lot of start-ups and we are a part of that." The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker last month signed a partnership worth up to $600mn with Shanghai-based LaNova Medicines for the global licence for a potential cancer drug, the latest in a series of deals in oncology and cell therapy. AstraZeneca China even has a collaboration agreement to sell a traditional Chinese medicine that aims to lower cholesterol. Foreign drugmakers tend to see partnerships as safer than acquisitions in China because of political risk and, historically, intellectual property theft. But Soriot said in April that the company had "no limitation" on buying Chinese businesses. When asked about potential objections from Washington, he quoted from a speech by US Treasury secretary Janet Yellen in which she insisted that the US did not intend to decouple from China. "There are industries where there are more tensions, of course, but it doesn't apply to our own pharmaceutical industry," he said. With western companies facing numerous barriers to doing business in China, cracking the market requires political skill. When AstraZeneca celebrated its 30th anniversary in the country, global executive vice-president Leon Wang pledged that the drugmaker would strive to be a patriotic company that "loves the Communist party", according to Reuters. AstraZeneca declined to comment on Wang's statement. Soriot has invested in research and development leading to breakthrough cancer drugs. After seeing off a bid from Pfizer in 2014, AstraZeneca's shares have risen more than 100 per cent in the past five years and its market capitalisation recently passed that of its US rival. The strategy of building its presence in China by forming relationships with regional governments beyond Beijing, Shanghai and the biotech hub of Suzhou gives it another advantage. "Typically the market looks at drug companies by key franchises, like an individual drug or therapeutic area," said Dani Saurymper, portfolio manager at AstraZeneca investor Pacific Asset. "So it is a plank of growth people haven't typically thought of: what is the geographic revenue potential?" Demaré said the group was "very into some provinces where there is not even a foreign player other than us". Wang has been building Astra- Zeneca's business in China since he arrived in 2013. "Leon is open to everything," said Bruce Liu, who leads the life sciences division for China at consultancy Simon-Kucher. "He has been very innovative." With an eye on the demands of China's healthcare system, Wang has overseen the building of thousands of centres in hospitals to deliver Astra- Zeneca's Pulmicort, a drug for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The latter affects more than 100mn Chinese. Paul O'Brien, a China market entry strategist, said the drugmaker's partnerships and capital investments were appealing to the government and had helped the group "blur some of the boundaries" between being seen as a purely foreign entrant and "one with significant skin in the China market". As China began to sharpen its focus on innovation in drugmaking over the past five years, pharma groups dependent on selling off-patent generic medicines had to scramble to change their business models. The country made reforms to give patients access to new drugs rather than cheap generics. Helen Chen, head of LEK Consulting's healthcare practice in Shanghai, cited a "really big shift in mentality" since 2017 as Beijing sped up the process of giving regulatory approval and insurance coverage. The list of nationally covered medicines, which once took four years or more to get on to, is now reviewed every year. But Beijing played hardball on price. Demaré said AstraZeneca had experienced a "difficult period" in China because of the government's pressure on prices and a hit to demand during lockdowns. But he pointed to the group's return to double-digit growth in the country. In the first quarter, sales in China, excluding those related to Covid shots and treatments, rose 11 per cent year on year at constant exchange rates to $1.6bn, though growth is expected to slow to a low single-digit percentage this year. Liu said that AstraZeneca had not been "vigilant enough" in the past two years on China's policies to encourage generic competition, and had not introduced enough innovative drugs in response. But the breadth of its experience in China was helping with the transition. AstraZeneca China was treated with "freedom, latitude and trust" by the drugmaker's global headquarters. AstraZeneca is having some success with innovative drugs. Sales of Tagrisso, for lung cancer, increased 17 per cent year on year in emerging markets to $444mn in the first quarter, threequarters of which was likely to have been in China, according to Simon Baker, an analyst at Redburn. "It is not far off being a blockbuster in China alone." Reforms such as more relaxed rules on outsourcing manufacturing have made it easier for China biotech groups to compete globally, while changes to Hong Kong listing rules have opened the market to biotechs without revenue. Soriot thinks AstraZeneca can be a partner of choice for China biotechs, which were discovering new products and technologies that would "shape the future of medicine". He planned to use AstraZeneca's presence in the country to "tap into this innovation and help those companies develop and commercialise their products globally". Wang has spearheaded a partnership with state-backed investment bank China International Capital Corporation to create a $1bn fund to invest in local start-ups. Chen believed that acquisitions would be politically possible for AstraZeneca, as long as the group did not target a "major Chinese champion of industry", or gene therapy companies, which were considered nationally strategic. Liu said acquisitions were "in theory not a bad idea", with pharma companies able to negotiate bargain prices because many biotechs were "cash-starved". But they were not common because of potential issues on integrating assets and other geopolitical and legal challenges, particularly since relations between the west and China had deteriorated. Lindsay Gorman, senior fellow for Emerging Technologies at the Alliance for Securing Democracy think-tank, said statements of patriotism and loyalty to the party were pragmatic. She said: "The obsequiousness is definitely not subtle, but AstraZeneca is saying the quiet part out loud. To one degree or another, all businesses in China operate at the pleasure of an authoritarian state. "That is why the US government is concerned about more and more industries ... But is this the cost of doing business? In pharma, many companies have decided that it is." All businesses here 'to one degree or another operate at the pleasure of an authoritarian state' CREDIT: HANNAH KUCHLER — LONDON ELEANOR OLCOTT — HONG KONG CAPTION: The Anglo-Swedish drugmaker is focused on capitalising on its position in China as the largest overseas pharmaceutical business by sales — FT montage/Bloomberg ;
: Innovations; Authoritarianism; Geopolitics; Startups; Cancer therapies; Regulatory approval; Biotechnology industry; Drugs; Pharmaceutical industry; Market entry
: : Startups Regulatory approval Biotechnology industry Pharmaceutical industry Market entry; : AstraZeneca; : 32541 :‎ Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing 54171 :‎ Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences
: Beijing China; United States--US; China
/: : AstraZeneca; NAICS: 325412
: 32541: Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing; 54171: Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences
: AstraZeneca defies geopolitics with China bet:   Ageing population, burgeoning biotechnology sector and rising spirit of innovation present large opportunities
: Kuchler, Hannah; Olcott, Eleanor
: Financial Times; London (UK)
: 10
: 2023
: Jun 5, 2023
: News
: The Financial Times Limited
: London (UK)
/: United Kingdom, London (UK)
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance, Political Science
ISSN: 03071766
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2832893865
URL: 
: Copyright The Financial Times Limited Jun 5, 2023
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text. Content is not loaded until 30 days after it is published.
: 2023-11-28
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Heartland shops get a visual makeover
: sphcomsg, paigelim. 
: SINCE August 2021, more than 200 heartland stores have gotten help to refresh their layouts under Heartland Enterprise Centre Singapore (HECS) and Enterprise Singapore's Visual Merchandising programme.
The first run was completed in December last year, with participants seeing a 20 per cent increase in footfall and sales, estimates HECS centre director Lai Cheng Yi.
Besides physical transformation, visual merchandising includes digital marketing, brand upkeep and service excellence commitment, he added.
"This will enable a new level of marketing that appeals to a different crowd, and bring in customers that might be in different categories from those that they predominantly serve."
Soon Lee Heng (SLH) Fresh Fruits Trading At Soon Lee Heng (SLH) Fresh Fruits Trading, two digital monitors display the stall's smoothies and their prices, along with videos about the nutritional benefits of juice. Outside, a standing screen plays ads for customisable hampers, gift boxes, fruit cups and fruit platters.
SLH was set up by brothers Ang Eng Guan and Ang Eng Hwa at Clementi West in 2014. After seeing digital screens at juice stores in malls, the older Ang, Eng Guan, was prompted to get similar displays. These were installed in January 2022 with funding and consulting support from the Visual Merchandising programme.
"We wanted to change the image of our entire shop, which has always been very traditional," he said. "We needed to differentiate ourselves from other neighbourhood fruit stalls."
A modern-looking shopfront helps it offer "higher-end" fruits such as Korean strawberries.
A digital display is also more convenient than the previous printed board, which had to be replaced every time the stall wanted to add seasonal products, hold promotions or change prices.
The store has seen a 10-15 per cent increase in sales year on year, which the brothers attribute to increased product visibility with the screens.
The standing display has helped to attract corporate orders, which form about 40 per cent of sales. Said Ang: "There are a lot of offices in our vicinity ... some think we only sell fruits, but may not know we also offer corporate deliveries and fruit subscription services."
Heng Foh Tong Medical Hall Two years ago, a passerby could have mistaken traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) hall Heng Foh Tong for a minimart. Goods such as shampoo and washing detergent filled the shopfront -- threatening to overshadow its TCM offerings, said Heng Foh Tong vice-president Lee Chin Siong.
He embarked on his plans to revamp the 66-year-old family business after participating in the Visual Merchandising programme in October 2021.
New wooden flooring, lighting and a modern signboard were installed. Inside, Lee emulated health and beauty retail chains, arranging products by category and installing lightbox signage.
Outside, old-school red baskets and racks were replaced with drawers, allowing customers to "easily assess what's on offer".
Best-selling products -- confinement herbs and Heng Foh Tong's own range of herbal drinks -- are now displayed front and centre. Said Lee: "TCM can be very intimidating to a younger generation and they generally don't know what you're selling. That's why we wanted to display our key products prominently."
TCM and non-TCM offerings are clearly separated. "Now visually at a glance, you know that we're a TCM shop. The look is a lot cleaner and modern; newer customers find it easier to walk in, explore the shop and find things on their own."
Since the revamp in May 2022, the Bukit Batok shop has seen a 10 per cent increase in footfall and sales year on year, and attracted a younger crowd, said Lee.
M S Color Photography equipment store M S Color was once so cluttered that owner Loh Chee Liueh often had trouble locating his inventory. Products were inconsistently placed: batteries, for instance, were both stored in drawers and hung on walls.
The 42-year-old business in Ang Mo Kio was also seeing a shrinking customer base, relying mainly on regulars. Sales of compact digital cameras have declined by over 40 per cent in the last decade due to the rise of smartphone cameras, Loh said.
To change this, Loh updated the store's layout with tips from the Visual Merchandising programme.
Product displays are now segmented by customer groups, from photography novices to professionals. While unopened boxes used to be chucked into display cases, items are now unpacked and presented on shelves.
Previously, bulky tripods and gimbals were stacked in front of the cashier. Now, accessories such as memory cards and batteries are lined up there. Said Loh: "Our cashier area is so much neater now, and we can find our stocks more quickly. Displaying supporting accessories at the front also encourages impulse buying."
Its photography laser printing machines have been shifted near the entrance, allowing customers to operate the equipment on their own. "Some people didn't even know we offered printing, because the machines used to be located in a studio at the back," said Loh.
M S Color now attracts younger walk-in customers who not only spend more time in the store, but linger outside to look at the products, he said.
Students and young adults make up about half of its clientele, up from just 20 per cent before the revamp. Sales have grown by 10-20 per cent year on year, he added.
: Fruits; Customers; Chinese medicine; Photography; Merchandising
: : Customers Merchandising; : 54192 :‎ Photographic Services
: Singapore
: 54192: Photographic Services
: Heartland shops get a visual makeover
: sphcomsg, paigelim
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: May 4, 2023
: SME
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2808935523
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-11-29
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Chinese companies win half of all African construction contracts employing alleged corrupt methods [World News]
: Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury. 
: Chinese companies have won around half of all African construction contracts meant for foreign firms allegedly through corrupt methods. One out of every three major infrastructure projects in Africa are built by Chinese state-owned enterprises and one out of every five is financed by a Chinese policy bank.
Two Chinese companies, viz. 'China State Construction Engineering Corporation' and 'China Road 7 Bridge Construction' are facing corruption charges in Kenyan courts. The Chinese companies have flooded African markets with cheap and sub-standard products, driving away the local manufacturers/traders. Chinese producers have even occupied the traditional/cultural products produced by the local artisans by duplicating the product and selling it at cheaper rates. Kenya's artisanal 'Jua Kali' and local textiles is one of the affected industries due to China's copying production, ET has learnt.
A Chinese ceramic tiles manufacturing company 'Sunny Yi Feng' was accused (June 2021) of workers' rights abuse including 'slave punishments' for violating work-related protocols by Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. A London-based non-profit organization, 'Business & Human Rights Resource Centre,' in its 2021 report, stated that Africa has the second-highest number of human rights abuses with 26.7% being recorded against Chinese companies operating between 2013-2020. Most affected countries include Zimbabwe, Uganda, Kenya and DRC.
Chinese companies/investors hire Chinese workers representing about 70% against a total of 30% of local workers for most of their projects. Against natives employed by Chinese companies, they often adopt racist segregation policy, illegitimate safety procedures, hazardously extended working shifts, poor hygienic and working conditions. Moreover, Chinese companies hardly allow formation or influence of trade unions to safeguard their own interests.
Chinese companies are primarily engaged in projects under 'Belt & Road Initiative' (BRI). However, a 2018 study found that 270 BRI-related projects had problems related to debt sustainability, labor & environmental standards, national security, transparency and corruption.
Thirty African nations are indebted to China. Beijing received diamond mining rights in mines discovered in Mutare at Chiadzwa diamond fields in lieu of Zimbabwean debts for ammunition and agricultural equipment. Notably, a debt agreement by China comprises confidentiality clauses and remains opaque as well as differs from country to country.
In Democratic Republic of Congo, which holds 70% of the world's Cobalt, an essential mineral in the production of electric vehicles, China managed to get a stake for Chinese firms in 15 out of 19 Cobalt producing mines.
Chinese companies and investments have exacerbated pollution and environmental damage. In the Great Dyke region of Zimbabwe's Midlands Province, despite efforts by 'Environmental Management Agency, Chinese mining companies continue to defy the government ban on alluvial gold mining.
In Zimbabwe, about 27 NGOs voiced their concerns against the indiscriminate exploitation of the country's natural resources, leading to mass displacements, labor rights violations and adverse environmental impact. They urged Chinese companies to stop extraction activities of gold, coal, chrome, diamonds and other minerals and address the issues affecting the natives. However Chinese companies termed such protests as xenophobic, ET has learnt.
Chinese firm Zhongxin Coal Mining Group and Afrochine Smelting engaged for coal mining in the Hwange national park region in Zimbabwe, that hosts wild animals like elephants, cheetahs and rhinos besides rare flora & fauna, would cause mass displacements of locals and disturb the natural habitat by endangering rare species of animals. Furthermore, local people who are dependent on safari tourism would lose their livelihood and the tourism industry flourishing in the region would face loss of hundreds of millions of dollars.
In Zimbabwe, local community of Hwange had petitioned (March 2021) against a Chinese owned mining company 'Beifa Investments' exploring for coal in Dinde area as it violated the culture and heritage of Nambya people.
In Namibia, hundreds of Daures community, farmers, and small miners protested (March 3) against the Chinese company, 'Tangshan Xing Feng Spodumene Mining' for illegal lithium mining activities. They also alleged that the company in the garb of exporting lithium might also be exporting other raw materials such as tin, tantalum and fluorspar tourmaline.
Chinese entrepreneurs in Madagascar are blamed for illegal exports of rosewood and also local cattle called 'Zebu'. The expansion of 'Traditional Chinese Medicine' (TCM) in many African countries has further fuelled poaching, illegal wildlife trade and posed dangers to rare species. Notably, up to one million donkeys have been illegally taken from Ethiopia to produce TCM.
Meanwhile, Chinese Overseas Police Stations in some African countries are engaged in information gathering and repression activities targeting criminals, fugitives, corrupt officials and political dissidents/opponents.
: Mines; Coal mining; Corruption in government; Diamonds; Construction contracts; Chinese medicine; Tourism; Human rights; Labor unions
: : Coal mining Construction contracts Labor unions; : 81393 :‎ Labor Unions and Similar Labor Organizations 21239 :‎ Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying
: Kenya; Africa; China; Zimbabwe
: 81393: Labor Unions and Similar Labor Organizations; 21239: Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying
: Chinese companies win half of all African construction contracts employing alleged corrupt methods [World News ]
: Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury
: The Economic Times; New Delhi
: 2023
: Apr 26, 2023
: Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--India
ISSN: 09718680
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2805591108
URL: 
: Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Apr 26, 2023
: 2024-09-28
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Indonesia: Bio Farma, Sinopharm develop medicinal raw materials
: Indonesia's state pharmaceutical holding company, Biofarma Group, through its subsidiary Kimia Farma, signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Chinese state firm Sinopharm to develop and increase business potential related to cooperation in the development of Medicinal Raw Materials (BBO).
Apart from BBO, the MoU also encompasses the development of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and the TB Platform Project.
The MoU was inked by President Director of Kimia Farma (KAEF) David Utama and President of Sinopharm International Zhou Song and witnessed by President Director of Biofarma Honesti Basyir and Chairman of Sinopharm Liu Jingzhen in Beijing, China, last March.
"With the signing of the MoU between KAEF and Sinopharm, this is certainly a good opportunity for the Biofarma Group to continue to maintain the resilience of the nation's health," President Director of Biofarma Honesti Basyir noted in a press release on Saturday.
This is in line with one of the main programs of the Ministry of Health of increasing the resilience of pharmaceuticals and medical devices, Basyir stated.
"One of the agendas to increase the resilience of the pharmaceutical sector is to increase the fulfillment of the need for Medicinal Raw Materials (BBO)/Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API), chemical, biological products, and vaccines, domestically produced," he said.
The IndoVac vaccine produced by Bio Farma is one of the real results of the independence of the national pharmaceutical industry, with a Domestic Component Level (TKDN) of ninety percent, he stated.
President Director of KAEF, David Utama, remarked that the agreement is a continuation of the collaboration between Kimia Farma and Sinopharm that has been well-established during the handling of COVID-19.
"Kimia Farma supports national health resilience, one of them is by strengthening and accelerating (the development of) Medicinal Raw Materials (BBO). Currently, Kimia Farma has produced 14 BBO, and we will continue to increase it," Utama stated.
Furthermore, Utama said that this agreement is also emblematic of bilateral relations between the two countries to enhance and encourage transformation of the health industry.
Biofarma Group has established various global collaborations as an effort to increase national pharmaceutical health resilience.
"Currently, Biofarma Group's products and services have been used in more than 150 countries. Moreover, we have collaborated with various global companies," Basyir stated.
"These global companies include British Pharmaceutical Company, Profactor Pharma, for the development of blood product Recombinant Factor VIII; Bio Farma's collaboration with Google Cloud, Fitbit, and Connectedlife on new digital health initiatives; and collaboration with MSD to produce 4-valent vaccines for human papillomavirus (HPV) locally, as an effort to improve the quality of public health through synergy, innovation, and collaboration," Basyir stated.
Source: ANTARA News
: Pharmaceutical industry; Presidents; Vaccines; Collaboration; Health care; Raw materials
: : Pharmaceutical industry; : 32541 :‎ Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing 92111 :‎ Executive Offices
: Indonesia
: 32541: Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing; 92111: Executive Offices
: Indonesia: Bio F arma, Sinopharm develop medicinal raw materials
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Apr 20, 2023
: Business News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2802926609
URL:  2
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Apr 20, 2023
: 2023-11-29
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
A fresh take on traditional medicated oil
: sphcomsg, bryankow. 
: MEDICATED oil has been given a modern spin with scents such as magnolia or bergamot and lime, as traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) manufacturer Tai Tong Ah Company seeks to reach younger customers.
The company is known for its Double Prawn Brand Herbal Oil, produced since the 1950s. But a few years ago, they sought to create a "trendy and modern" product -- and found a like-minded partner in homegrown fragrance manufacturer Senses International.
The collaboration resulted in YnL, a range of botanic aromatherapy medicated oils.
Short for "Yuanlin" -- meaning "origin of forests" in Mandarin -- the range comprises four fragrance profiles: "fresh", with bergamot and lime; "energy", a sea spray scent; "calm", a magnolia fragrance; and "lush", containing patchouli and cedarwood.
"We combined our experience in traditional medicine, modern manufacturing methods, and quality control with the fragrance expertise of Senses," said Karol Tong, general manager at Tai Tong Ah.
When old meets new Established in 2009, Senses supplies fragrances that are used in the manufacturing of products such as shampoo and household cleaners.
When Covid-19 hit in 2020, the Senses team was unable to travel and meet potential clients overseas. With more time for their own research and development, they sought to come up with an innovative product -- and landed on the idea of combining their fragrances with medicated oil.
"We thought we could potentially incorporate aromatherapy into very traditional products, to actually modernise them," said Jayden Ang, director of business development.
Around this time, Tai Tong Ah was looking to develop a product for the younger generation, said Tong: "Something they can use to uplift their mood, relieve stress, and combat fatigue."
As Tong put it, "the stars aligned". Both companies approached Enterprise Singapore (EnterpriseSG) separately and were then connected.
Ang added that both companies shared a common goal of taking the product overseas: "Both of our companies want to fly the Singapore flag high."
In the product development stage, Senses supported in the "creative" aspect: coming up with fragrances and ensuring that the scents blended in with the medical oil base.
It was a challenge to combine essential oils with a medicated oil, without taking away the latter's traditional scent note, said Ang: "Because if you take away (this smell), the company will really lose its essence."
The YnL product formulations also had to be tweaked to meet the different regulatory requirements of overseas markets.
Each time this happened, the fragrance formulation had to be altered as well, with the entire process being "very complex", added Ang.
After finalising the formulations, Tai Tong Ah now manufactures and distributes the product range.
Getting help to go further Playing matchmaker is not the only support provided by EnterpriseSG. Its Centre of Innovation for Complementary Health Products helped to perform technical analysis on the YnL products.
This is important if companies want to take their products overseas, said Tong: "Data from such analyses is needed to fulfil the regulatory requirements to enter these markets."
EnterpriseSG's Centres of Innovation were set up in partnership with selected polytechnics and research institutes to help small and medium-sized enterprises develop and test projects.
There are 11 such centres, each specialising in a different industry.
The product range was launched on YnL's e-commerce site in December 2021.
Since then, it has been made available on e-commerce platforms such as Shopee and Lazada, and is carried by physical drugstores, healthcare chain Watsons, and Singapore outlets of Chinese department store chain Yue Hwa Chinese Products.
Tai Tong Ah is exploring overseas markets for YnL, such as Hong Kong, Cambodia, the Phillippines, and Qatar, added Tong.
To help with branding and marketing, an external consultant was brought in, with funding from EnterpriseSG.
Since YnL targets a younger demographic, Tai Tong Ah uses digital marketing platforms such as Instagram to reach them, and has also sponsored university events to create visibility for the brand.
"So far, we have been receiving positive feedback about the product in terms of quality, design appearance, and efficacy," said Tong.
There are plans to expand the YnL range, added Ang: "You cannot have one favourite that everybody likes, you need to cater to a group of different clients."
Two more fragrances will be released by the fourth quarter of this year: "summer", a vibrant fragrance based on berries, and "classic", a nostalgic combination of Swiss herbs.
Tong also hopes to experiment with other product types in the YnL line, such as medicated balms or gels.
: Innovations; Manufacturers; Aromatherapy; Research & development--R & D; Product development
: : Manufacturers Product development
: Singapore
: A fresh take on traditional medicated oil
: sphcomsg, bryankow
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: Apr 13, 2023
: SME
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2800095943
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-11-29
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Mental health app set to sail
: Many of us now wear devices that track our physical wellbeing, but could similar tech protect our mental health and fitness, too?
This is the question that began to gnaw away at Geoff Ross, an artificial intelligence entrepreneur whose main claim to fame is being a winner of, and former record holder in, the Sydney to Hobart yacht race.
He spent much of his career until recently in Hong Kong and China, working in tech but also fascinated by traditional Chinese medicine. He and a couple of fellow expats from Macquarie started an app-based business, WeTherapy, that used the principles of Chinese medicine to monitor people's vital signs and flag any health concerns they might develop.
But the COVID-19 pandemic shut borders and stifled business.
"Because we'd done all this analysis of physical characteristics, it occurred to us, maybe we could do the same for mental health," Ross recalls.
The result, which goes into pilot testing in Australia and Britain later this year, is a tracker app measuring what they call a person's "behavioural pulse".
Companies will also be able to use it, at an anonymised enterprise level, to gather data on their workforce's mental wellbeing.
"It's like a cardiovascular pulse, except that it's a composite measure of your behaviour, based on an AI analysis, and some pretty sophisticated mathematics, of the data on your mobile phone," Ross explains.
Drawing on 50 datasets that a person has on their phone, the app first works out what your normal range of activity is, and then starts keeping an eye on any deviations from it.
Just as a change in your cardiovascular pulse might signal that you need to get yourself checked out, so too should a change in your behavioural pulse.
"We're preventative," says Ross. "We're not diagnostic, we're not offering treatments. We're just trying to give it as early warning."
He reckons this model avoids the pitfalls of many health apps that require constant input and engagement from the user, leading to users giving up.
The flow of data, in dashboard form, could also help managers identify teams, business units, or types of worker that were struggling in some way.
Ross admits that not every employee is going to warm to the idea of a company monitoring their mental health.
He is adamant, though, that only the algorithm sees the raw data. "We will get our software independently checked to make sure it can't be reverse engineered to get into people's data," he says.
CREDIT: Hans van Leeuwen | AFR correspondent
: Mental health; Chinese medicine
: Australia
: Mental health app set to sail
: The Australian Financial Review; Melbourne
: 21
: 2023
: Feb 21, 2023
: Computers
: Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited
: Melbourne
/: Australia, Melbourne
: Business And Economics--Public Finance, Taxation
ISSN: 04042018
e-ISSN: 14449900
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2778000783
URL: 
: Copyright (c) 2023 Fairfax Media Publications Pty Limited. www.afr.com. Not available for re-distribution.
: 2023-11-30
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Challenges from Chinese distant water fishing fleets in Africa [World News]
: Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury. 
: China is consistently ranked at number one in the global list of 152 countries practicing illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing. Being an industrialized nation, China has been forcing its way into other poorer countries' Exclusive Economic Zones (EEZ), forcing the local fishermen out of jobs and disrupting the local marine ecosystem. The worst hit is taken by countries in Africa, Latin America and the Indian Ocean Region (IOR), according to IJ-Reportika, a leading investigative journalism outfit.
According to a comprehensive report published by IJ-Reportika, about 20% of the global IUU catch comes from just six western African countries - Mauritania, Senegal, the Gambia, GuineaBissau, Guinea and Sierra Leone.There have been multiple incidents of Chinese incursions and conflicts with the local African fishermen. Mauritania is suffering from Chinese incursions and aggressive fishing vessels since 2018. In 2020, three Mauritanian artisanal fishermen died when their boat was struck by a large Chinese Trawler. Despite being a smaller EEZ, it has been reported that the Chinese have spent over 2 million hours fishing.
In Senegal and Liberia, Chinese industrialized trawlers have been denied permission in 2019 which naturally decreased Chinese activities in the region. However, the incursions of the trawlers and conflicts with local fishermen have come to light. In Cameroon, sea area up to 3nm from the coast is reserved for artisanal and local fishermen. However, the local fishermen have accused Chinese trawlers of taking away all the catch including fingerlings and other fishes like 'Awacha', Mossubu, Trong Kanda, Crab or Njenga, popular in Cameroon, according to IJ-Reportika.
In 2021, many Chinese trawlers were arrested after the Minister of Fisheries in Gabon declared a crackdown on Illegal Fishing by the Trawlers. Despite this, the presence of Chinese Trawlers at the land boundary of Gabon was seen all around the year 2022.In Ghana, a group of fishers called "Saiko" have become a source of transshipment and selling bycatch caught by Chinese trawlers to the local markets. In addition to illegal fishing, Chinese vessels are also engaged in smuggling fentanyl from China to Africa and wildlife products for Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) from Africa to China, according to the report.
In the eastern African region, the activity of Chinese DWF vessels has been on the rise since 2016, according to IJ-Reportika. It has been reported that these vessels often use flags of the countries they are fishing in to hide their identity. Moreover, the People's Liberation Army Navy is also seen escorting the fishing vessels near the choke point of Horn of Africa in the name of providing protection from pirates. Unlike the countries in western Africa, the government of Somalia has signed agreements with the Chinese fishing companies to allow Chinese long liners and trawlers in Somali waters.
The island nations in East Africa like Seychelles, Mauritius and Reunion have been permeated by Chinese long liners and squid jiggers. According to tracking data produced by OceanMind, between 2019 and 2021, 132 Chinese-flagged vessels have operated in Madagascar's EEZ, targeting the country's inshore and offshore fisheries. Chinese investments in the country have seen a sharp rise since 2017. It was only after protests of local people that the government declared the Chinese trawling illegal, forcing them to move to Senegal.
South Africa is rich in marine life which attracts a large number of squid jiggers in the area. In April 2020, six Chinese trawlers were detected entering the South African EEZ after being ordered out of Namibian waters. These trawlers were then detained and issued with fines by the South African authorities as they failed to produce the required permission, according to IJ-Reportika.
The continuous foray of Chinese DWF vessels have caused a ton of issues in African countries ranging from environmental degradation to unemployment of local people. One of those issues is the corruption of governments. Local government officials award excessive fishing permits or take bribes from the Chinese to allow them to continue illegal fishing in the area. They avoid making arrests as they are afraid the Chinese would retract the development aid in retaliation. While the officials are busy making money, the local fishermen are struggling to make ends meet.
There have been numerous protests by the locals against the livelihood crisis and environmental damage caused by the Chinese DWF vessels in Senegal, Ghana, Sierra Leone, Guinea, Nigeria, Gambia and Togo. Because of heavy overfishing in the region, the African people are left with nothing to eat. A 100 million people of Africa depend on the protein from small pelagic fishes like Sardinella that are fished by 330,000 local fishermen. As Chinese trawlers catch nothing less than 75% of the fish in the area, the local population is suffering from numerous deficiencies of essential minerals. On top of that, many of the African fishers who are working onboard some of these trawlers have accused their Chinese managers of racial abuse. They've stated that they have been mistreated, abused and even threatened to be pushed overboard. Many fishers have died onboard due to the mistreatment by the authorities.
Another concerning issue is that the Chinese vessels often use or rather misuse the flag of the countries they are fishing in, IJ-Reportika alleged. It was reported that Chinese vessels Yu Feng 1, 3 and 4 changed from Chinese flag to Ghanaian flag as soon as they entered Ghana's territory. They fish under the host country's flag as it protects them from local laws and getting caught by the AIS (Automatic Identification System) as well. The dubious practices by Chinese DWF have long affected the marine environment across the globe, polluting air, water and land alike and destroying coral reefs. The corrupt practices by the Chinese and the local governments have wreaked havoc on the innocent, hard-working citizens who are starved, racially abused and mistreated on every occasion.
: Fishing vessels; Fishing; Commercial fishing; Fisheries
: : Commercial fishing Fisheries; : 11411 :‎ Fishing
: Mauritania; Cameroon; Gambia; Senegal; Africa; China; Sierra Leone; Ghana; Gabon
: 11411: Fishing
: Challenges from Chinese distant water fishing fleets in Africa [World News ]
: Dipanjan Roy Chaudhury
: The Economic Times; New Delhi
: 2023
: Jan 25, 2023
: Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited
: New Delhi
/: India, New Delhi
: Business And Economics, General Interest Periodicals--India
ISSN: 09718680
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2768771242
URL:  es-chinese-distant-water-fishing-fleets/docview/2768771242/se-2?accountid=45062
: Copyright Bennett, Coleman & Company Limited Jan 25, 2023
: 2023-11-30
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Singapore healthcare firms ailed by rising costs, but there are bright spots
: Anita. 
: AS Singapore's healthcare players leave the worst of the pandemic behind them, they appear beset by other pain points, from rising operating costs to slowing economic growth and a staff crunch in the city-state to boot.
While the lifting of mobility and border curbs since last year have seen the return of local as well as foreign patients, which are driving inpatient volumes and bed occupancy higher, the sting of rising costs threatens to be this year's party poopers for the sector.
Joe Sim, the group chief operating officer of Asia's largest private healthcare operator IHH Healthcare, said: "This year is about navigating the 'new normal' as we are now firmly in the post-Covid phase."
He added: "At IHH, we have seen patients returning in strength, and expect our admission volumes and bed occupancy to grow... these long-term megatrends remain positive for our sector. From a business perspective, this has offset the reduction in Covid-related services provided."
Nevertheless, headwinds are aplenty.
"In the near term, we see macroeconomic headwinds such as inflationary pressures -- including on salary costs from nursing shortages -- as well as high energy prices and rising interest rates," said Sim.
To tackle price pressures, IHH, which counts Singapore and Malaysia as anchor markets and also has a large presence in Turkey and India, raised prices across its operations.
A spokesperson from Raffles Medical Group cited similar challenges, adding that the shortage of healthcare staff, particularly nurses, is a "concern" and hence, "higher medical costs can be expected".
On IHH's part, it has ramped up hiring efforts as pipelines of new nurses are being built.
According to a December report by CGS-CIMB Research following the group's Q3 results release last year, IHH's management estimated that staffing constraints may have affected up to 10 per cent of patient admissions over the quarter.
While Singapore's Catalist-listed Singapore Paincare Holdings (SPCH) founder, executive director and chief executive Bernard Lee does not expect the rising medical costs to hamper its business -- "pain is ubiquitous in every single condition", he said -- more cost pinch may be afoot.
According to Dr Lee, the group is "adopting a look-and-see approach" on the impact of the higher goods and services tax (GST), which was raised to 8 per cent on Jan 1 this year. Singapore-based businesses with an annual turnover exceeding S$1 million are required to register for GST.
The firm offers a range of pain care services from specialist and primary care doctors, as well as traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and physiotherapy. It also has 10 general practitioner clinics, three specialists clinics, two physiotherapy centres, one TCM clinic and two health screening facilities and rehabilitation as of June 2020. Half of them are GST-registered.
"We are looking to see whether our overall revenue can keep going and then there's not a need to have to adjust our prices," he said.
Amid rising operating costs and as the operating environment turns more challenging post-pandemic, multidisciplinary healthcare specialist Livingstone Health's CEO Wilson Tay deemed the firm's move to a new centralised facility in Henderson Road last year as a "timely one".
He expects the firm to recognise cost savings by the first half of this year and added that the new four-storey facility, equipped with a warehouse for medical supplies, will be able to generate economies of scale and improve operational efficiency.
One big upside for Singapore's healthcare firms could be medical tourism, which is set to get a shot in the arm as China reopens. This follows a noticeable return of foreign patients to the city-state for treatment and services from elsewhere in the region since the reopening of their home borders.
"At Raffles Hospital, we generally see about 25 per cent of foreign patients who fly into Singapore to seek medical services. This excludes expatriates who reside here. Since the borders reopened on April 2022, we have been seeing foreign patients returning, especially from countries we have presence in, including Indonesia and Indochina," said the Raffles Medical spokesperson.
"We expect more foreign patients to return as China reopens its borders, and for medical tourism to gain momentum," the spokesperson added. China accounts for around 7 per cent of Raffles Medical Group's revenue.
IHH has seen foreign patient numbers recovering to near pre-pandemic levels as economies reopened and expects the trend to remain positive for 2023.
"Singapore remains an attractive destination for its accessible location, ease of travel rules, value-effective services, robust regulatory framework for healthcare, and the high quality of staff and treatment available," said IHH's Sim.
Even so, Dr Tay of Livingstone Health, which draws mostly local patients and less than 5 per cent of foreigners, pointed out that the medical tourism market remains competitive, as other South-east Asian markets have been ramping up efforts to attract medical tourists.
According to Dr Lee, medical tourism accounted for about 30 per cent of SPCH revenue, which was hurt by the pandemic as international borders were shut to curb the spread of Covid-19.
That drop, however, was "balanced off" by more local patients, as evinced by its record top line and bottom line performance for the fiscal year ended June 2022.
"The moment the borders were lifted, we had an influx in medical tourism on the back of pent-up demand. The surge happened around April to May last year," he recalled.
Seventy per cent of Singapore Paincare's foreign patients hail from Indonesia.
Since then, foreign patient numbers have tapered off and "stabilised" to about 20 to 25 per cent today, he added.
Another thing to look forward to, said Dr Lee, is the Singapore government's campaign for a "Healthier SG" -- a major preventive health strategy that is set to launch in the second half of 2023. This could bring more patients for the group.
"We are no longer just talking about degenerative-related pain. We could see a lot more sports or exercise injury-related pain as people try to get more healthy," he said, referring to those who have not done such activities in a while and are eager to do so.
Livingstone Health had earlier said it planned to add more clinics under its primary healthcare arm, Phoenix Medical Group, to increase patient outreach and grow cross-disciplinary referrals, as primary healthcare providers will serve as a core pillar of the "Healthier SG" approach.
: Patients; GST; Pandemics; Prices; Physical therapy; Medical tourism; Medical supplies; Chinese medicine; Cost control; Medical screening; Operating costs; COVID-19; Health care expenditures
: : GST Cost control Operating costs; : 62134 :‎ Offices of Physical, Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists
: Singapore; China; Indonesia
: 62134: Offices of Physical, Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists
: Singapore healthcare firms ailed by rising costs, but there are bright spots
: Anita
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2023
: Jan 24, 2023
: Front Page
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2768659232
URL: 
: © 2023 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-11-30
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Asia: Asia Fact Check Lab: Is Paxlovid too expensive for China to purchase?
: In Brief
China's National Healthcare Security Administration recently broke off talks with Pfizer to include Paxlovid among the medications eligible for reimbursement under the country's national health insurance system. Officials said the company was charging too much for the antiviral medicine.
Many netizens on popular Chinese social media sites WeChat and Weibo have further blamed the joint World Health Organization (WHO) and the Medicines Patent Pool for not including China amongst the upper-middle income countries eligible to receive generic COVID medications at cheap prices.
Asia Fact Check Lab (AFCL) found it misleading to blame the breakdown of talks on Pfizer's pricing for Paxlovid. China's own per-capita income statistics preclude it from buying Paxlovid at the same price as other upper-middle income countries, and the vast sums the country has spent on combating COVID - both inside and outside its borders - indicate that the price of a single medication is not likely a critical issue.
In Depth
China's healthcare security agency on Jan. 8 announced that Paxlovid, an oral medication "strongly recommended" by WHO in use against COVID, would not be added to the list of medications eligible for reimbursement under domestic healthcare plans due to its cost.
The decision was made in spite of findings from China's National Health Commission that detail the drug's usefulness in treating patients in the early and intermediate stages of infection. Skyrocketing demand for the medicine has made it almost impossible to legally obtain in China, and black market scalpers regularly fetch tens of thousands of yuan for a box.
Is Pfizer asking too high a price for Paxlovid?
Details of China's negotiations with Pfizer were not publicly released. An article published by Chinese media conglomerate Tencent cited an insider source as saying that an offer to sell Paxlovid for 700 yuan ($104) per course was rejected. Neither side has confirmed the statement.
Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla mentioned the negotiations at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare Conference held on Jan. 9. He noted that Paxlovid prices are based on the income levels where it is sold. "They (China) want it lower than the lowest of the middle, and we didn't agree, Bourla said. They are the second highest economy in the world, and I don't think that they should pay less than El Salvador."
Paxlovid received emergency approval from the State Food and Drug Administration on Feb. 11, 2022, with the first batch of 21,200 boxes selling for 2,300 yuan per course the following month. One course includes 30 tablets meant to be consumed over five days.
Before the latest round of negotiations began, the People's Daily, a government-aligned newspaper, reported that the price for a course of Paxlovid under a government healthcare plan had dropped from 2,300 yuan to 1,890 yuan. If patients were able to obtain maximum reimbursement, their out-of-pocket payment would only be 189 yuan per course.
Some countries have purchased Paxlovid directly with national funds to minimize the costs for patients. The U.S. has ordered 10 million doses priced at around $530 (3,700 yuan) per course, offered free to eligible patients who test positive for COVID. The German Federal Ministry of Health purchased 1 million doses at a cost of 500 euros per course (3,640 yuan). The governments of Taiwan and Hong Kong bought Paxlovid for about $700 (4,716 yuan) per course.
All these prices are at least a thousand yuan higher than prices in China.
Is China a low or middle-income country?
Several WeChat and Weibo users have claimed that buying Paxlovid without the discounts provided by a licensing agreement signed between Pfizer and the Medicines Patent Pool (MPP) - an international public health agency that works with pharmaceutical companies to provide critical medications poorer countries at low costs to -- would place undue financial stress on China's healthcare system.
The agreement allows generic knockoffs of Paxlovid to be sold royalty-free in low, lower-middle and some upper-middle income countries. According to self-reported World Bank data, China has been listed amongst upper-middle income countries since 2010 and its current GDP per capita of $12,234 places the country near the top of upper-middle income countries. The MPP uses the same data to determine countries' eligibility to buy their generic Paxlovid.
And the country appears to have plenty of money on hand. The National Healthcare Security Admission split a bill of over 120 billion yuan ($17 billion) on vaccines with China's Ministry of Finance since COVID broke out, and still retained a surplus of more than 500 billion yuan ($74 billion) in 2022 alone, according to National Health Insurance Administration data. China has donated an additional $200 million to several international COVID response funds.
China promotes domestically produced medicines
In denying coverage for Paxlovid, China may be opening up market space for local drug companies.
On Jan. 6, the National Health Insurance Administration issued its Guidelines for Setting COVID Drug Treatment Prices (Trial Implementation). Hu Shanlian, a professor at Fudan University's School of Public Health, told the People's Daily that the guidelines will ensure the affordability of COVID medicines produced in China. Ordinary people will be able to buy these drugs at low cost, he said. Domestically produced COVID medication will thus gain a larger market share than imports, due to their cost advantage and effective treatment."
Just as negotiations with Pfizer broke off, two Chinese-made medications - Azvudine tablets and Qingfei Paidu granules - were cleared to be included as reimbursable COVID medications under national health insurance plans. Azvudine was originally a medication for HIV patients, only approved as a treatment for COVID in July 2022. Qingfei Paidu is a traditional Chinese medicine that lacks data from phase 3 clinical trials that show whether the medication might cause less common side effects in specific groups of people.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Reimbursement; Public health; Patents; COVID-19 vaccines; Prices; National health insurance; Health care policy; Drug dosages
: : Patents National health insurance; : Pfizer Inc
: China; Asia
/: : WeChat; NAICS: 516210, 518210; : Pfizer Inc; NAICS: 325412, 339113
: Asia: Asia Fact Check Lab: Is Paxlovid too expensive for China to purchase?
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Jan 17, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2765788442
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jan 17, 2023
: 2023-12-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: Chinese hospital staff report severe disease linked to reinfections with Omicron
: Healthcare workers across China are seeing large numbers of people who have been reinfected with the Omicron variant of COVID-19, putting a further strain on the country's beleaguered healthcare system, multiple sources told Radio Free Asia.
A healthcare worker surnamed Li in the northern city of Shijiazhuang said medics are now seeing a wave of secondary infections, due to the damage wreaked by COVID-19 on the immune system.
"We're hearing about a very large number of reinfections in out-of-town areas, due to the damage done to the immune system by the first infection with COVID-19," Li said. "People are presenting with pain that is five to 10 times worse than what they had during their first infection."
A doctor in the same city who declined to be named said patients are presenting with reinfections as early as one month after recovering from their first, and with immunity that has been weakened by the virus itself.
Her account was backed up by healthcare workers at hospitals in the northern city of Taiyuan and in the central province of Hunan, who spoke to Radio Free Asia on Friday.
"The incidence of reinfections with Omicron has increased significantly," an attending physician surnamed Chen at the No. 2 Affiliated Hospital of the Hunan University of Traditional Chinese Medicine said.
"Some data show that around 100,000 people out of three million cases were reinfections, which is about 3%," Chen said.
Reports of infection rates of around 70% across much of China in recent days would mean an estimated 900 million people in China have been infected at least once with Omicron. If Chen's figure were to be extrapolated nationwide, that would mean the country is also seeing around 10 million reinfections.
Top internal medicine expert Zhang Boli warned the general public in an interview with the Science and Technology Daily newspaper to be on their guard against reinfection.
Virologists have long warned of the potential for reinfection with the Omicron variant of COVID-19. A study by researchers at London's Imperial College described Omicron as being highly capable of reinfecting people, even if they are triple-vaccinated.
Study lead author Rosemary Boyton said in June 2022 that getting infected with Omicron "does not provide a potent boost to immunity against reinfection with Omicron in the future."
Meanwhile, a Nov. 10, 2022 study in the scientific journal Nature found that "reinfection [with COVID-19] further increases risks of death, hospitalization and sequelae in multiple organ systems," both during the initial disease and in the months that follow.
'This isn't being reported on TV'
The family member of a COVID-19 patient revealed in an audio recording posted to social media in recent days: "The situation has changed a bit ... I'm at the hospital today, and beds are in short supply. Everyone here is on their second COVID-19 infection."
"This isn't being reported on TV," the person said. "These reinfected patients are all suffering from deteriorating autoimmunity, and are lying in hospital with only human serum albumin being administered twice daily."
A healthcare worker surnamed Liu at a hospital in Taiyuan said there are many different mutant strains of Omicron currently circulating in China.
"It's very serious because so many people got infected all at once the first time around," Liu said. "The data is changing incredibly fast right now."
"It's very easy for people to get reinfected by the virus when they're not even fully recovered from their first infection," she said.
Hunan-based doctor Chen said he is seeing a high proportion of severe disease in reinfected elderly people with underlying health problems.
"There is a high proportion of severe cases among reinfected elderly people with high blood sugar, high blood pressure, heart and kidney disease, emphysema, asthma and other underlying diseases," he said.
A medical supplies business owner surnamed Sun from the eastern province of Jiangsu said the peak of the current wave may have passed in China's bigger cities.
"I feel the peak has passed in the big cities but not yet in the second, third and fourth-tier cities," she said. "The rural wave hasn't really happened yet."
Hundreds of millions of people are currently heading back to their ancestral homes ahead of Lunar New Year on Jan. 22, sparking fears of a rural wave of COVID-19 infections peaking sometime in March.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Infections; Older people; Medical supplies; Coronaviruses; Disease; Immune system; Cities; Medical personnel; COVID-19; Hospitals
: : Hospitals; : 62211 :‎ General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: China
/: : Radio Free Asia; NAICS: 516210
: 62211: General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: China: Chinese hospital staff report severe disease linked to reinfections with Omicron
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Jan 17, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2765788417
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jan 17, 2023
: 2023-12-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Asia: INTERVIEW: 'Three years of zero-COVID, and what has it achieved?'
: Hu Peng doesn't have much to celebrate this New Year. His 90-year-old father died of COVID-19 on New Year's Eve in the northern Chinese city of Tianjin after suffering cardiopulmonary failure.
Hu spoke to Radio Free Asia about the harrowing scenes in hospital, as the virus wreaks havoc in Tianjin amid a nationwide wave of sickness and death that has followed the lifting of the zero-COVID policy.
"I called the emergency number, 120, but they said there were 90 people ahead of me in the queue," Hu said. "Eventually they asked me which hospital we were going to, and I told them the Second Hospital of Tianjin Medical University."
"The guy told me not to even think about going there because there are currently long lines coming out of the hospital gates," Hu said. "So he arranged for us to go to the ER at Tianjin Hospital, which was packed full of people."
"The corridors were full of people lying down next to each other, and ICU beds were hard to come by," he said. "The doctors told me they usually only treat orthopedic cases, but there were four elderly people there over the age of 80."
"They said it wasn't even their specialty."
The emergency room was so crowded that there was nowhere to sit, Hu said.
"There was an 89-year-old patient next to my dad, whose daughter said she wasn't even able to get him onto the general ward of the Tianjin No. 1 Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital, despite having a former classmate who is a departmental director there," he said. "So that's why they had come to the ER."
Another nightmare
Hu's father remained at the hospital for four days, but eventually died of COVID-19, plunging Hu into another kind of nightmare: trying to book a funeral home and cremation services in the middle of a wave of deaths across the country.
"Basically, if you don't have any connections, you won't even be able to get a vehicle to come pick up the body from the hospital morgue," Hu said. "I have a former classmate who runs a funeral home, and they sent a car pretty quickly to pick up the body."
"When we got to the funeral home, it was packed with people," he said. "They told me there that they used to cremate a little over 40 bodies a day, but they are now cremating 240 a day."
"The guy said the bigger funeral homes are cremating 500 to 600 a day, he said.
China said last week that it has been fully "transparent" about its COVID-19 reporting, amid criticism on social media over the government's reporting of the outbreak and widespread pressure on funeral homes as deaths skyrocket.
Funeral home staff and local residents have told Radio Free Asia that bodies are piling up in people's homes awaiting cremation across China, as funeral homes work round the clock and recruit more staff to transport the dead amid a nationwide outbreak of COVID-19 that followed the loosening of restrictions.
What has it achieved?
Hu said he wants to know what the point of the past three years of rolling lockdowns, mass tracking and surveillance and compulsory testing programs was, if they could be so rapidly abandoned.
"Three years of zero-COVID, and what has it achieved? We can't get hold of antivirals or over-the-counter fever medicines."
Chinese tech giant Tencent last month set up a social media platform in a bid to help people share common fever medicines amid a nationwide run on medicines that has spread beyond China's borders, as Chinese nationals tap friends and relatives overseas for supplies.
China's National Health Commission said last week that it will no longer be publishing daily COVID-19 infection figures, as the virus rips through the population.
"They recruited all of those white-clad enforcers, built a bunch of quarantine facilities and made everyone do PCR tests, and basically wasted all of those medical resources," he said.
"They could have ended zero-COVID six months ago, or they could have ended it in six months' time. Either would have been better than ending it now, just as we're coming into winter, when the elderly are prone to getting sick," Hu said.
"Doing it now seems like it's just sending all the old people to their deaths."
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Emergency medical care; Cremation; Funeral homes; Older people; Coronaviruses; Social networks; COVID-19; Hospitals
: : Funeral homes Social networks Hospitals; : 81222 :‎ Cemeteries and Crematories 81221 :‎ Funeral Homes and Funer al Services 62211 :‎ General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: China
/: : Radio Free Asia; NAICS: 516210
: 81222: Cemeteries and Crematories; 81221: Funeral Homes and Funeral Services; 62211: General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
: Asia: INTERVIEW: 'Three years of zero-COVID, and what has it achieved?'
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2023
: Jan 5, 2023
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2760578637
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Jan 5, 2023
: 2023-12-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Western Medicine to China's Rescue
: One conceit of Chinese leader Xi Jinping is that the West is in terminal decline and the Communist Party is destined to dominate the world in technology and politics. So don't expect the Party media to celebrate the country's emergency acceptance of Western Covid medicine.
Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Co. said Tuesday that Chinese users of its health app can now sign up to get doses of the Western-made BioNTech mRNA vaccine in Hong Kong. That's happy news for affluent Chinese passport holders who can hop a flight to Hong Kong or nearby Macau, where vaccine tourism has been booming since Mainland infections began to rise.
Less lucky are the hundreds of millions of Chinese who don't have a passport, much less the means to jet off for a weekend jab. What would Mao Zedong say about this lack of equality, Comrade Xi?
For nearly three years China has refused to accept Western mRNA shots while favoring Sinovac and Sinopharm vaccines. But that nationalist strategy has lost credibility as zero-Covid ends and infection spreads in China. A December review of Singapore health data in the Lancet found that people over age 60 who received three doses of a traditional vaccine (like those made in China) had higher incidence of severe Covid and Covid hospitalization than those who took the mRNA vaccines.
Hong Kong has obediently adjusted its vaccination policies to absorb the moneyed Mainland masses, but vaccination tourism won't be enough to prevent the contagion inflicting preventable deaths on the Mainland. The sudden reversal of Covid mandates in an aging population with limited natural immunity is feeding a wave of infection that needs treatment as much as prevention.
Here too the Western medical cavalry has arrived with Pfizer's Paxlovid, the antiviral that moderates symptoms for most patients. China approved the drug for emergency use in February, but demand is now outpacing supply.
Lines have been stretching outside fever clinics and community health centers in major Chinese cities. In mid-December, Reuters reported that a Chinese health app offering Paxlovid sold out in half an hour. The South China Morning Post says Mainland demand for antiviral drugs is so high that many Chinese are now scooping up Indian generic versions that may be less effective.
China denied its citizens the best vaccines and therapies because it didn't want to admit the inferiority of its medical science and biotechnology industry. Pfizer and Moderna were offering to sell their vaccines to Beijing, but the Party demanded that the companies turn over their intellectual property. Mr. Xi may also have figured China could steal it.
Beijing had nearly three years to prepare for the inevitable end of zero-Covid, and it could have done so by buying Western vaccines, antivirals and even basic fever medicines that are also now in short supply in China. This month's Chinese protests questioned President Xi's zero-Covid lockdowns. The next protest should question why so many Chinese are needlessly dying because the Party followed Mr. Xi's blinkered nationalism.
: COVID-19 vaccines; Tourism; Drug dosages; Antiviral drugs
: : Pfizer Inc
: China; Beijing China; Hong Kong China
/: : Pfizer Inc; NAICS: 325412, 339113; : Shanghai Fosun Pharmaceutical Co; NAICS: 325412
: Western Medicine to China's Rescue
: Wall Street Journal, Eastern edition; New York, N.Y.
: A.16
: 2022
: Dec 29, 2022
: REVIEW & OUTLOOK (Editorial)
: Dow Jones & Company Inc.
: New York, N.Y.
/: United States, New York, N.Y.
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance
ISSN: 00999660
: English
: Opinions, Editorial
ProQuest  ID: 2758949209
URL: 
: Copyright 2022 Dow Jones & Company, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text.
: 2024-08-26
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China's lucrative orchid industry is a test for the nation's commitment to conservation
: Liu, Hong. 
: The health benefits vary depending on species; conditions for which orchids are used include immune system boosting, hypertension and stroke. In 2020, China produced 33,000 short tons (30,000 metric tons) of Dendrobium orchids, with an estimated market value of ¥12 billion RMB, or about $US1.7 billion. [...]these plants command a much lower market price than their wild counterparts.
: China is well known for its medicinal use of wild plants, a tradition that dates back thousands of years. These traditional Chinese medicines include many wild orchids, some quite showy.
Typically, orchids are consumed alone or mixed with other herbs in tea or soup. The health benefits vary depending on species; conditions for which orchids are used include immune system boosting, hypertension and stroke.
Many of these medicinal orchids are among the 40-plus species in the genus Dendrobium . In recent decades, supplies of wild-sourced medicinal Dendrobium orchids have declined steadily, with shortages of some types. This is occurring in the limestone regions of Guizhou and Guangxi, the main area where Dendrobium has grown naturally, due to a combination of overharvesting by collectors and habitat loss.
I am an ecologist and lead several research projects in southwestern China, where the nation’s first orchid nature preserve is located in a zone with a highly diverse assortment of orchid species. In 2017, China released a Biodiversity Red List of endangered species found within its borders. It included 68 threatened Dendrobium species but did not mention overharvesting as a factor for their decline, even though I and other researchers have shown that trade in wild-harvested orchids is very active in China.
In my view, China’s Biodiversity Red List significantly underestimates wild harvest as a threat to Chinese orchids. The government has taken encouraging steps on this issue recently, but its actions reflect challenges that are relevant to conserving many wild species, such as balancing use and conservation. The fate of China’s Dendrobium orchids thus offers clues about what China is prepared to do to conserve its many endangered plants and animals.
From forests to cities
Farmers typically collect wild medicinal orchids to sell to middlemen or in rural markets. From there, the plants often move to bigger medicinal plant trading hubs or flower-and-bird markets in major Chinese cities.
。
The total trade volumes of medicinal orchids are not well documented, but likely vary by species. Available records showed that medicinal Dendrobium species trade peaked in the late 1980s at about 660 short tons (600 metric tons) yearly. More recent evidence suggests that wild medicinal Dendrobium are being traded across borders between China and southeast Asian countries, probably because the plants’ populations are dwindling in China.
Industrial cultivation
Although China faces many well-known sustainability challenges, it is working to position itself as an environmental leader. This is especially true for protecting wild species: In 2019, China sought and won the role of host for the planned 2021 Conference of Parties to the U.N. Convention on Biodiversity. That meeting, originally located in the Chinese city of Kunming, was held in Montreal in late 2022 after several COVID-19 delays.
Actions on orchid conservation reflect this push. On Sept. 7, 2021, China released a revised list of National Key Protected Wild Plants, which included about 1,100 species. The new list added 291 Chinese orchid species, in sharp contrast to the preceding version, which did not protect any orchids.
All 96 species of Chinese Dendrobium are on the list, which means that collecting them is subject to national regulations on wild plant protection. It remains to be seen how effectively these regulations will be enforced.
China also has encouraged production of commercially valuable animals and plants on farms to meet market demand and reduce pressure on wild species. For orchids and many other species, this strategy has produced mixed results.
Growers are now cultivating Dendrobium orchids, including Tie Pi Shi Hu ( D. catenatum ), one of four “fairy herbs” that are documented in ancient herbal books. This process is mostly done in industrial greenhouses. In 2020, China produced 33,000 short tons (30,000 metric tons) of Dendrobium orchids, with an estimated market value of ¥12 billion RMB, or about $US1.7 billion.
This output has only partly satisfied market demand, and orchid consumers view cultivated orchids as an inferior option. As a result, these plants command a much lower market price than their wild counterparts.
Gastrodia elata , a threatened orchid used in traditional Chinese medicine, is a good example. Mass artificial cultivation techniques for this species were developed as early as the 1980s, but have not ended wild collection.
Forest-grown orchids
One alternative would be to ban use of these threatened orchids. But usage bans on other wild species have produced mixed results. Depending on factors such as market demand and species biology, bans may not be necessary or desirable.
It has been more productive for China to supplement mass orchid cultivation by raising high-value medicinal and edible plants under the canopy of well-managed native forests. These cultivation operations, which could be called “forest grown” or “forest farmed,” are ecologically beneficial because farmers can adopt harvesting methods that enable the plants to persist and reproduce. Forest-grown ginseng in the U.S. is an example of this approach.
Forest-grown Dendrobium farming is popular now in Guizhou and Fujian provinces. The provincial government is encouraging it as a way of reducing poverty.
。
Forest farming helps producers save money by eliminating or reducing the need for pesticides. In turn, farming without chemicals enables them to sell their plants in organic and other niche markets. It also helps to conserve the target species and the forests where they grow, and preserves native forest diversity. Promoting forest farming can drive interest in forest stewardship and raise awareness about indigenous plants.
This strategy also has some disadvantages. Plants grow more slowly under forest canopies than in shade houses, and yields generally are lower. This means that forest-farmed products must be sold at a premium to be profitable. For now, I believe these semi-wild cultivation operations should be considered experimental.
Conserving high-value plants while also supporting local livelihoods will require officials to think about both ecological and social impacts. If China can find a way to achieve sustainable use of medicinal orchids, it could set a conservation model for other countries that face similar challenges.
Hong Liu received funding from the Guangxi Chairman’s Foundation (09203-04), the Mohamed bin Zayed Species Conservation Fund 0905324 and Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden.
AuthorAffiliation Hong Liu, Professor of Earth and Environment, Florida International University
: Farmers; Forests; Endangered & extinct species; Wildlife conservation; Biodiversity
: China
: Hong Liu
: China's lucrative orchid industry is a test for the nation's commitment to conservation
: Liu, Hong
: The Conversation U.S.; Boston
: 2022
: Dec 20, 2022
: The Conversation US, Inc.
: Boston
/: United States, Boston
: General Interest Periodicals--United States
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2755962074
URL: 
: © 2022. This work is published under  (the “License”). Notwithstanding the ProQuest Terms and Conditions, you may use this content in accordance with the terms of the License.
: 2022-12-21
: Coronavirus Research Database; Publicly Available Content Database
____________________________________________________________
China's lucrative orchid industry is a test for the nation's commitment to conservation
: Liu, Hong. 
: The health benefits vary depending on species; conditions for which orchids are used include immune system boosting, hypertension and stroke. In 2020, China produced 33,000 short tons (30,000 metric tons) of Dendrobium orchids, with an estimated market value of ¥12 billion RMB, or about $US1.7 billion. [...]these plants command a much lower market price than their wild counterparts.
: China is well known for its medicinal use of wild plants, a tradition that dates back thousands of years. These traditional Chinese medicines include many wild orchids, some quite showy.
Typically, orchids are consumed alone or mixed with other herbs in tea or soup. The health benefits vary depending on species; conditions for which orchids are used include immune system boosting, hypertension and stroke.
Many of these medicinal orchids are among the 40-plus species in the genus Dendrobium . In recent decades, supplies of wild-sourced medicinal Dendrobium orchids have declined steadily, with shortages of some types. This is occurring in the limestone regions of Guizhou and Guangxi, the main area where Dendrobium has grown naturally, due to a combination of overharvesting by collectors and habitat loss.
I am an ecologist and lead several research projects in southwestern China, where the nation’s first orchid nature preserve is located in a zone with a highly diverse assortment of orchid species. In 2017, China released a Biodiversity Red List of endangered species found within its borders. It included 68 threatened Dendrobium species but did not mention overharvesting as a factor for their decline, even though I and other researchers have shown that trade in wild-harvested orchids is very active in China.
In my view, China’s Biodiversity Red List significantly underestimates wild harvest as a threat to Chinese orchids. The government has taken encouraging steps on this issue recently, but its actions reflect challenges that are relevant to conserving many wild species, such as balancing use and conservation. The fate of China’s Dendrobium orchids thus offers clues about what China is prepared to do to conserve its many endangered plants and animals.
From forests to cities
Farmers typically collect wild medicinal orchids to sell to middlemen or in rural markets. From there, the plants often move to bigger medicinal plant trading hubs or flower-and-bird markets in major Chinese cities.
。
The total trade volumes of medicinal orchids are not well documented, but likely vary by species. Available records showed that medicinal Dendrobium species trade peaked in the late 1980s at about 660 short tons (600 metric tons) yearly. More recent evidence suggests that wild medicinal Dendrobium are being traded across borders between China and southeast Asian countries, probably because the plants’ populations are dwindling in China.
Industrial cultivation
Although China faces many well-known sustainability challenges, it is working to position itself as an environmental leader. This is especially true for protecting wild species: In 2019, China sought and won the role of host for the planned 2021 Conference of Parties to the U.N. Convention on Biodiversity. That meeting, originally located in the Chinese city of Kunming, was held in Montreal in late 2022 after several COVID-19 delays.
Actions on orchid conservation reflect this push. On Sept. 7, 2021, China released a revised list of National Key Protected Wild Plants, which included about 1,100 species. The new list added 291 Chinese orchid species, in sharp contrast to the preceding version, which did not protect any orchids.
All 96 species of Chinese Dendrobium are on the list, which means that collecting them is subject to national regulations on wild plant protection. It remains to be seen how effectively these regulations will be enforced.
China also has encouraged production of commercially valuable animals and plants on farms to meet market demand and reduce pressure on wild species. For orchids and many other species, this strategy has produced mixed results.
Growers are now cultivating Dendrobium orchids, including Tie Pi Shi Hu ( D. catenatum ), one of four “fairy herbs” that are documented in ancient herbal books. This process is mostly done in industrial greenhouses. In 2020, China produced 33,000 short tons (30,000 metric tons) of Dendrobium orchids, with an estimated market value of ¥12 billion RMB, or about $US1.7 billion.
This output has only partly satisfied market demand, and orchid consumers view cultivated orchids as an inferior option. As a result, these plants command a much lower market price than their wild counterparts.
Gastrodia elata , a threatened orchid used in traditional Chinese medicine, is a good example. Mass artificial cultivation techniques for this species were developed as early as the 1980s, but have not ended wild collection.
Forest-grown orchids
One alternative would be to ban use of these threatened orchids. But usage bans on other wild species have produced mixed results. Depending on factors such as market demand and species biology, bans may not be necessary or desirable.
It has been more productive for China to supplement mass orchid cultivation by raising high-value medicinal and edible plants under the canopy of well-managed native forests. These cultivation operations, which could be called “forest grown” or “forest farmed,” are ecologically beneficial because farmers can adopt harvesting methods that enable the plants to persist and reproduce. Forest-grown ginseng in the U.S. is an example of this approach.
Forest-grown Dendrobium farming is popular now in Guizhou and Fujian provinces. The provincial government is encouraging it as a way of reducing poverty.
。
Forest farming helps producers save money by eliminating or reducing the need for pesticides. In turn, farming without chemicals enables them to sell their plants in organic and other niche markets. It also helps to conserve the target species and the forests where they grow, and preserves native forest diversity. Promoting forest farming can drive interest in forest stewardship and raise awareness about indigenous plants.
This strategy also has some disadvantages. Plants grow more slowly under forest canopies than in shade houses, and yields generally are lower. This means that forest-farmed products must be sold at a premium to be profitable. For now, I believe these semi-wild cultivation operations should be considered experimental.
Conserving high-value plants while also supporting local livelihoods will require officials to think about both ecological and social impacts. If China can find a way to achieve sustainable use of medicinal orchids, it could set a conservation model for other countries that face similar challenges.
Hong Liu received funding from the Guangxi Chairman’s Foundation (09203-04), the Mohamed bin Zayed Species Conservation Fund 0905324 and Fairchild Tropical Botanic Garden.
AuthorAffiliation Hong Liu, Professor of Earth and Environment, Florida International University
: Hypertension; Farmers; Immune system; Forests; Market value; Endangered & extinct species; Wildlife conservation; Biodiversity
: China
: Hong Liu
: China's lucrative orchid industry is a test for the nation's commitment to conservation
: Liu, Hong
: The Conversation : Environment + Energy; Boston
: 2022
: Dec 20, 2022
: The Conversation US, Inc.
: Boston
/: United States, Boston
: Energy, Environmental Studies
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2755961391
URL: 
: © 2022. This work is published under  (the “License”). Notwithstanding the ProQuest Terms and Conditions, you may use this content in accordance with the terms of the License.
: 2024-10-02
: Publicly Available Content Database
____________________________________________________________
A growing portfolio of health and wellness alternatives
: Ang, Yi Ting. 
: FROM a single alternative healthcare clinic, A Wellness Holdings (AWHL) has expanded to comprise businesses ranging from slimming, facial and spa services to pain management and cosmetic procedures.
It all began in 2012 with the establishment of Natural Healings Chiropractic and PhysioCare clinic, since renamed Natrahea. Now a chain of clinics, Natrahea helps patients recover from medical conditions through alternative healthcare such as chiropractic treatment, functional wellness treatment and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), instead of surgery or medication.
Said AWHL group chief executive officer Arich Tan: "When I was in the alternative healthcare segment, I noticed that people were suffering from aches and pains, and their only means of a cure was to undergo surgery." He thus wanted to help them recover through alternative healthcare instead.
Tan later set up AWHL with group deputy CEO Paurline Wee, as an investment holding company for businesses in health, wellness and beauty, including Natrahea.
Natrahea now has seven clinics specialising in headaches and body pains. Beyond Singapore, the plan is to grow its customer base by expanding in South-east Asia.
AWHL has also sought to expand beyond Natrahea itself, by acquiring and operating businesses in the holistic health, clinical aesthetic and beauty spa industries.
Though Natrahea has been successful, Tan did not want AWHL to become too reliant on a single brand. AWHL thus ventured into the beauty industry and began acquiring local heritage brands, many of which were family-owned businesses whose second-generation shareholders were not keen to continue.
In 2014, AWHL acquired Haach, a provider of face, skin, and body spa treatments that had five branches at the time. The following year, Dr Haach was founded as Haach's aesthetic wing, providing services such as Botox, fillers, laser and other aesthetic treatments at three locations.
AWHL has also acquired management rights over several other beauty and wellness clinics, including skin, body and spa chain FIL; slimming, facial and spa brand Body Contour; Passage New York spa; spinal care and pain management clinic PhysioMed; hair and scalp treatment provider TrichoMed; and Covette Laser Aesthetics, which provides minimally invasive cosmetic procedures.
This growth strategy of mergers and acquisitions has allowed it to increase its consumer reach, market share and value. AWHL won its first Enterprise 50 Award in 2020, and has gone on to win again in 2021 and 2022.
Tan credits Natrahea's success in capturing market share to two factors. First, the brand provides a sense of security and trust, he said. Smaller stand-alone clinics may be manned by just one or two professionals with variable operating hours, which may inconvenience customers.
Customers may also think twice about purchasing healthcare packages from smaller clinics. In contrast, with a team of specialists across its chain of clinics, Natrahea can give customers the assurance that their needs will be met.
A second competitive advantage is Natrahea's concept of "East meets West", in which chiropractic, TCM and physiotherapy treatments are combined.
Because AWHL provides both holistic beauty and wellness programmes, many customers have stayed on for decades, switching between AWHL's brands for various needs as they age, said Tan.
Innovating through the pandemic As with many other businesses, AWHL was forced to rethink its strategy when the pandemic began. Singapore's beauty and wellness industry was badly hit as Covid-19 restrictions meant that many procedures were suspended.
Staff worried about retrenchments and pay cuts, but none of AWHL's 300 employees had to undergo these. Said Tan: "That's the period of time when we should stand shoulder to shoulder."
AWHL was able to get through the Covid-19 pandemic due to its willingness to constantly innovate and digitalise, he said. In fact, AWHL's revenue grew in the past two years.
In the past, AWHL's marketing efforts were mainly through offline methods such as endorsements, roadshows, shopping mall events, phone calls and corporate sharing sessions. But in 2018, AWHL started going digital to streamline its processes and engage with younger customers.
Riding the social media wave, AWHL established an online presence to promote its various brands. This meant it could continue reaching customers during the pandemic. E-commerce platforms allowed AWHL to stay afloat when shops were closed, with Natrahea and Dr Haach having over 15 and 20 products listed online respectively.
Besides digital marketing, AWHL has digitalised the consumer journey too. Using artificial intelligence (AI) and data mining, it analyses data to identify opportunities for cross-selling across its brands.
To stay competitive, AWHL plans to go even further in its digital journey. In its five-year strategy road map starting in 2022, it is eliminating most manual processes, such as data entry, payment and appointment bookings.
Instead, it plans to shift to cashless payments, digital sales, online booking systems, and a seamless integration of its brands and services onto a Web3 platform. To reduce the risk of "mis-selling", the company is also looking at using AI to recommend the right products for beauty treatments.
Besides technological innovation, AWHL is also going green, with plans for sustainable initiatives such as environmentally friendly packaging and replacing traditional sheet face masks with liquid ones.
This series is part of the Enterprise 50 Educational Project between the E50 partners and the NUS Business School. A Wellness Holdings was among the winners in 2021. The annual E50 ranking is co-organised by The Business Times and KPMG, sponsored by OCBC Bank, and supported by Enterprise Singapore, Singapore Exchange and Singapore Business Federation.
: Pain management; Chiropractic medicine; Artificial intelligence; Clinics; Pandemics; Customers; Chief executive officers; Chinese medicine; Coronaviruses; Aesthetics; Market shares; Beauty; COVID-19
: : Artificial intelligence Customers Chief executive officers Market shares; : 62131 :‎ Offices of Chiroprac tors 62149 :‎ Other Outpatient Care Centers
: Singapore
: 62131: Offices of Chiropractors; 62149: Other Outpatient Care Centers
: A growing portfolio of health and wellness alternatives
: Ang, Yi Ting
: The Business Times; Singapore
: 2022
: Dec 8, 2022
: ENTERPRISE 50
: SME
: SPH Media Limited
: Singapore
/: Singapore, Singapore
: Business And Economics
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2747876539
URL: 
: © 2022 Singapore Press Holdings
: 2023-12-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China: China's zero-COVID restrictions ease in some places, not in others: residents
: Chinese citizens described wildly varying COVID-19 prevention measures following anti-lockdown protests across the country this week, with some areas still locked down and others easing back on restrictions.
The top ruling Communist Party official in charge of the zero-COVID policy, Sun Chunlan, told local, regional and municipal governments to "optimize" their attempts to contain the virus on Thursday, saying the response to the coronavirus is now "facing a new situation."
State media quoted experts as saying that "optimization" allows a better balance between containing COVID-19 outbreaks and allowing people to live normal lives.
"Effective medicine, especially traditional Chinese medicine, vaccination of more than 90 percent of the whole population, and declining pathogenicity of the Omicron virus, have created the condition for further optimizing COVID-19 responses," the English-language Global Times paraphrased Sun as saying.
She urged frontline workers to properly handle COVID-19 prevention and quickly respond to people's concerns, the report said.
'White paper' protests
Sun's comments came after a wave of "white paper" protests across China sparked by a deadly lockdown fire in Xinjiang's regional capital Urumqi.
RFA's affiliate, Asia FactCheck, found after an investigation that at least five people who died in the blaze were under a lockdown at the time.
Authorities in Beijing loosened testing requirements for people staying home and reopened shopping malls to people with a negative COVID-19 test in the past 48 hours, the Global Times said.
But Beijing residents said the official announcement wasn't being implemented where they lived.
"It's lies - don't listen to them," a resident of Beijing's Fangshan district surnamed Tang told RFA. "They said yesterday it would be lifted today, but it was a lie.
"We've been under lockdown for more than a month now," she said.
Shanghai officials said lockdowns would be lifted in 24 areas previously designated as "high-risk."
However, residents told RFA that areas remain under lockdown, with no loosening of COVID-19 controls across the board.
"The people of Guangdong feel like we're on a roller-coaster at Disneyland," said Liang Songji, who lives in the province in the city of Guangzhou. "Shanghai issued a directive on Nov. 29 telling people to stockpile enough food for two months, while the U.S. Embassy was telling Americans to lay in food stores for 14 days.
"Then, Guangzhou unexpectedly lifted its lockdown on Nov. 30. I was drinking beer downstairs when I saw all the COVID-19 enforcers running to and fro like crazy," Liang said. "About 15 minutes later, at 2.30 p.m., people from the city and district sanitation teams came to tear down the barriers that block people from going in and out of homes and businesses.
Lockdown changes
A video clip uploaded by a social media account in Guangzhou showed workers dismantling traffic barriers.
"These were installed secretly in the middle of the night, and now they are being dismantled openly," a person comments on the video. "All [PCR] test stations are suspended as of now.
"The lockdown is really over - we don't need passes any more," the user said. "They told me that the disease isn't really that terrible; what's terrible is not being able to go to class, not having any money, or any food to eat."
Around the same time, authorities in Shanghai lifted restrictions on Tang township in Pudong and the Daning Road area of Jing'an district.
"The district government sent out a directive telling us to stockpile enough supplies for a two-month pandemic [lockdown]," a Shanghai resident who gave only the surname Chen for fear of reprisals told RFA. "So I started to think they might lock us down again.
"Then I found out that they're not locking down districts any more, only buildings," he said. "They used to lock down an entire district if they found a single case, then only lift the lockdown after [several] days of zero cases."
Some residents of the central city of Wuhan and the southern city of Shenzhen said they were still under lockdown, however.
"Our compound is still locked down, and we're heard nothing," a resident of Wuhan's Jiang'an district who gave only the surname Li told RFA. "We're not allowed to leave the building - hundreds of households are unable to go out.
"They come door to door to do the PCR tests," she said. "I just asked my classmate in Shenzhen, and she said they're still having to do daily PCR tests there too."
Herd immunity
The loosening of restrictions has been accompanied by online speculation that the authorities are experimenting with the notion of "herd immunity" in the southwestern province of Sichuan.
Two recordings that apparently discussed the roll-out of a new approach at three educational institutions in Shifang city were posted by social media influencer "Mr. Li is not your teacher" on Twitter, and have been circulating on the WeChat social media platform in recent days.
In the recordings, speakers cite a "secret document" from the central government in Beijing calling for a test-run of the herd immunity approach in Shifang.
"Sichuan province was assigned this task by the central government, and issued a secret document to Shifang, requiring us to carry out preliminary experiments under closed-loop management," the students are told in one recording. "This means that all of the teachers and students in the school will become infected [with COVID-19]."
RFA was unable to verify the content of the recordings independently. Shifang city issued a directive on Friday lifting COVID-19 "temporary control measures" across its jurisdiction, saying that areas designated "high-risk" would still be locked down.
In one recording, a man is heard telling students that "the whole country needs this big data." The "experiment" as described in the recordings appeared to consist of lifting all restrictions, then testing everyone three times on day 14.
Potential risks
Herd immunity with the Omicron variant of COVID-19 has been described as unlikely by immunology professor Danny Altmann, who described Omicron in a July 1 article in The Guardian as "a kind of stealth virus that gets in under the radar without doing too much to alert immune defenses."
"Even having had Omicron, we're not well protected from further infections," Altmann wrote.
Former Chinese Red Cross Director Ren Ruihong said China should be very cautious about allowing mass COVID-19 infections.
"Europe and the United States have high vaccination rates, and properly functioning healthcare systems," Ren told RFA. "Respiratory infections on a large scale squeeze medical resources, and China has such a huge population that local healthcare facilities wouldn't be able to keep up."
"If [the reports of an end to zero-COVID restrictions are] true, the consequences of letting it rip will be unimaginable," Ren said. "Chinese people have been protected so far, and its vaccines aren't very effective, so people are very vulnerable.
"It will be unfair on vulnerable groups if there is large-scale infection, and the healthcare system could collapse."
The Caixin news site quoted sources on Dec. 2 as saying that China plans to step up vaccination rates among the elderly, setting a target of 90% of people over the age of 80 by next month.
Just over 65% of people in that category are currently fully vaccinated, with only around 40% having received a booster jab, compared with more than nearly 69% of the over 60s, 86.4% of whom are fully vaccinated, immunization czar Xia Gang said at a Nov. 26 news conference.
Source: Radio Free Asia
: Infections; COVID-19 vaccines; Disease prevention; Coronaviruses; Herd immunity; Social networks; Medical research; Government shutdowns
: : Social networks Government shutdowns
: China; Beijing China; United States--US
: China: China's zero-COVID restrictions ease in some places, not in others: residents
: Asia News Monitor; Bangkok
: 2022
: Dec 6, 2022
: General News
: Thai News Service Group
: Bangkok
/: Thailand, Bangkok
: General Interest Periodicals--Philippines, General Interest Periodicals--Vietnam, General Interest Periodicals--Thailand
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2746077776
URL: 
: Copyright Thai News Service Group Dec 6, 2022
: 2023-12-01
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Aster DM Healthcare launches Wellth, a hub for integrative medicine for 'healthy people'
: Kumar, Anjana. 
: The new hub in UAE to help people lead healthier lives, alleviate lifestyle diseases Dubai: Aster DM Healthcare has launched 'Wellth' — a hub of integrative medicine in the UAE — to encourage people to lead healthier lives, alleviate chronic lifestyle diseases, help them prevent hereditary afflictions. The hub will also offer a range of therapies to boost immunity, improve general health and sustain good health.
'Wellth' will be managed by Medcare with a range of services including sleep improvement, anti-ageing and regenerative medicine consultation, addiction management, preventive screening package, osteopath treatments and much more at its premises in Jumeirah, Dubai. Wellth will also have avant-garde technology that will facilitate DNA Testing, Chronic Disease Management and so on.
"Wellth is a luxury health and wellness offering. We want to create 'wellanaires' who come to us to stay well and improve their health and well-being," said Alisha Moopen, Deputy Managing Director, Aster DM Healthcare.
"It is an investment on your health. We want to create a whole new wellenaire club. And we are delighted to have renowned global experts, Deepak Chopra and Dr. Frank Lipman who will be our guide to create the best, healthiest and wealthiest wellanaires in the country," she said.
Alisha added: "In the post-pandemic world, we are all acutely aware that true wealth is nothing but good health. We want to encourage people to make good health and well-being their top priority. This is why we created Wellth as the first hub of integrated medicine in the UAE, which will offer time tested, traditional, non-invasive, global ways of achieving and sustaining emotional and physical well-being by nurturing a holistic, mind-body-spirit approach."
Hub for healthy people
Dr Azad Moopen, Founder, Chairman and Managing Director of Aster DM Healthcare said: "We want to attract healthy people at the Wellth Centre. I personally went around Europe to see how and why they are wellness destinations. I am happy to say that we are creating a miniature of all that is there right here at Wellth."
"It is paradoxical that most healthcare providers including us have been more focused on sick-care, treating those who are ill. We recognise the need to provide integrated healthcare with more focus on preventive care which lives up to the age old saying that prevention is better than treatment. We want to encourage people to look at their health holistically and proactively."
Dr Lipman added: "We are bringing gene testing for example. With the results, people can manipulate their genes to work around their lifestyle so they don't fall into the gene disposition. We are bringing some really state of the art technique which can make a huge difference to a person's lifestyle.
"Wellth will be combining the wisdom we have gained from ancient traditions with the knowledge learnt from modern science, practicing what we call Good Medicine. We will be offering a range of complimentary modalities giving patients an easy-to-follow map to wellness and always addressing the root causes of illness."
Body inflammation
Dr. Chopra said: "Most diseases we find today are linked to inflammation in the body, emotional disruption, lack of sleep and elevated stress. But our genes go on and off. So we can work around the genes we have been gifted with exercise, good nutrition and wellness programmes to elevate our existence.
"I am delighted to be one of the key advisers of Wellth and offer people here the much-needed alternative — not just to stay healthy but also to alleviate lifestyle diseases rather than to just manage them, and most importantly, to prevent diseases — hereditary or otherwise — so that our mind, body and spirit becomes our first line of defence against any virus or any illness for that matter."
More about Wellth
Wellth was inaugurated by Essa Al Hajj Al Maidoor, Director General, Dubai Developments; Dr. Marwan Al Mulla, CEO — Health Regulation Sector, Dubai Health Authority (DHA); along with Dr. Deepak Chopra and Dr. Frank Lipman, global experts in functional & alternative medicine and Advisors of Wellth.
A consultant will ensure that each health-seeker gets individual attention and a tailor-made therapy plan based on their specific needs and goals. This is formulated after studying the patient's health history, habits, susceptibilities, lifestyle, strengths, and weaknesses.
There are fifteen therapies at Wellth, some include Functional medicine, Nutrition Therapy, Ayurveda, Yoga, Mental & Emotional Health, Chiropractic, Reiki, Cryotherapy, Chinese Medicine and Homeopathy. Proven therapies from across the world have been hand-picked by Dr. Chopra and Dr. Lipman.
: Medicine; Genes; Integrative medicine; Prevention; Lifestyles
: United Arab Emirates; Dubai United Arab Emirates
: Chopra, Deepak; Lipman, Frank
: Aster DM Healthcare launches Wellth, a hub for integrative medicine for 'healthy people'
: Kumar, Anjana
: Gulf News; Dubai
: 2022
: Nov 11, 2022
: Disco Digital Media, Inc.
: Dubai
/: United States, Dubai
: General Interest Periodicals--United Arab Emirates
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2735155129
URL: 
: © Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2022. All rights reserved. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).
: 2023-12-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Aster DM Healthcare launches Wellth, a hub for integrative medicine for 'healthy people'
: Kumar, Anjana. 
: The new hub in UAE to help people lead healthier lives, alleviate lifestyle diseases Dubai: Aster DM Healthcare has launched 'Wellth' — a hub of integrative medicine in the UAE — to encourage people to lead healthier lives, alleviate chronic lifestyle diseases, help them prevent hereditary afflictions. The hub will also offer a range of therapies to boost immunity, improve general health and sustain good health.
'Wellth' will be managed by Medcare with a range of services including sleep improvement, anti-ageing and regenerative medicine consultation, addiction management, preventive screening package, osteopath treatments and much more at its premises in Jumeirah, Dubai. Wellth will also have avant-garde technology that will facilitate DNA Testing, Chronic Disease Management and so on.
"Wellth is a luxury health and wellness offering. We want to create 'wellanaires' who come to us to stay well and improve their health and well-being," said Alisha Moopen, Deputy Managing Director, Aster DM Healthcare.
"It is an investment on your health. We want to create a whole new wellenaire club. And we are delighted to have renowned global experts, Deepak Chopra and Dr. Frank Lipman who will be our guide to create the best, healthiest and wealthiest wellanaires in the country," she said.
Alisha added: "In the post-pandemic world, we are all acutely aware that true wealth is nothing but good health. We want to encourage people to make good health and well-being their top priority. This is why we created Wellth as the first hub of integrated medicine in the UAE, which will offer time tested, traditional, non-invasive, global ways of achieving and sustaining emotional and physical well-being by nurturing a holistic, mind-body-spirit approach."
Hub for healthy people
Dr Azad Moopen, Founder, Chairman and Managing Director of Aster DM Healthcare said: "We want to attract healthy people at the Wellth Centre. I personally went around Europe to see how and why they are wellness destinations. I am happy to say that we are creating a miniature of all that is there right here at Wellth."
"It is paradoxical that most healthcare providers including us have been more focused on sick-care, treating those who are ill. We recognise the need to provide integrated healthcare with more focus on preventive care which lives up to the age old saying that prevention is better than treatment. We want to encourage people to look at their health holistically and proactively."
Dr Lipman added: "We are bringing gene testing for example. With the results, people can manipulate their genes to work around their lifestyle so they don't fall into the gene disposition. We are bringing some really state of the art technique which can make a huge difference to a person's lifestyle.
"Wellth will be combining the wisdom we have gained from ancient traditions with the knowledge learnt from modern science, practicing what we call Good Medicine. We will be offering a range of complimentary modalities giving patients an easy-to-follow map to wellness and always addressing the root causes of illness."
Body inflammation
Dr. Chopra said: "Most diseases we find today are linked to inflammation in the body, emotional disruption, lack of sleep and elevated stress. But our genes go on and off. So we can work around the genes we have been gifted with exercise, good nutrition and wellness programmes to elevate our existence.
"I am delighted to be one of the key advisers of Wellth and offer people here the much-needed alternative — not just to stay healthy but also to alleviate lifestyle diseases rather than to just manage them, and most importantly, to prevent diseases — hereditary or otherwise — so that our mind, body and spirit becomes our first line of defence against any virus or any illness for that matter."
More about Wellth
Wellth was inaugurated by Essa Al Hajj Al Maidoor, Director General, Dubai Developments; Dr. Marwan Al Mulla, CEO — Health Regulation Sector, Dubai Health Authority (DHA); along with Dr. Deepak Chopra and Dr. Frank Lipman, global experts in functional & alternative medicine and Advisors of Wellth.
A consultant will ensure that each health-seeker gets individual attention and a tailor-made therapy plan based on their specific needs and goals. This is formulated after studying the patient's health history, habits, susceptibilities, lifestyle, strengths, and weaknesses.
There are fifteen therapies at Wellth, some include Functional medicine, Nutrition Therapy, Ayurveda, Yoga, Mental & Emotional Health, Chiropractic, Reiki, Cryotherapy, Chinese Medicine and Homeopathy. Proven therapies from across the world have been hand-picked by Dr. Chopra and Dr. Lipman.
: Medicine; Genes; Integrative medicine; Prevention; Lifestyles
: United Arab Emirates; Dubai United Arab Emirates
: Chopra, Deepak; Lipman, Frank
: Aster DM Healthcare launches Wellth, a hub for integrative medicine for 'healthy people'
: Kumar, Anjana
: Gulf News; Dubai
: 2022
: Nov 11, 2022
: Disco Digital Media, Inc.
: Dubai
/: United States, Dubai
: General Interest Periodicals--United Arab Emirates
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2735122793
URL: 
: © Al Nisr Publishing LLC 2022. All rights reserved. Provided by SyndiGate Media Inc. (Syndigate.info).
: 2023-12-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China's Covid-19 tsar promotes treatments without revealing links to makers: Pandemic [Usa Region]
: Riordan, Primrose; Li, Gloria; Ho-Him, Chan; Lockett, Hudson. 
: One of China's top government health officials has repeatedly promoted Covid-19 remedies included in Beijing's official treatment protocol for the disease without disclosing his links with the manufacturers. Epidemiologist Zhong Nanshan was chosen to head an expert group at the National Health Commission, responsible for formulating China's health policy, at the start of the pandemic. The NHC publishes a protocol advising on Covid treatments, regarded as the treatment "bible" by doctors and local governments across China, according to Jin Dong-Yan, a virologist at the University of Hong Kong. But Zhong, considered a hero after managing the 2003 Sars epidemic, has close ties to companies behind some of the treatments, which he has promoted in scientific journals and public talks without mentioning these relationships. "It's one thing to propose something to be included in the treatment guidelines based on evidence, but it's another thing if you have a commercial interest in proposing the inclusion, because the latter suggests a conflict of interest," said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations think-tank. Philip Chan, a committee member of Pharmacists Connect, a Hong Kong organisation that represents the sector, added: "If [Zhong] is promoting products, he should explain clearly the interests that he has with ... the company behind the product." There is no suggestion Zhong has behaved illegally and he is not the only public health official in China who works with the private sector. But his high profile and influence over the pandemic response mean the general population follows his advice, according to Huang. Zhong and the NHC did not respond to requests for comment. Xuebijing, a traditional Chinese medicine made by Shenzhen-listed Tianjin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical, was added to the NHC's protocol for treating Covid in January 2020. The company's share price has subsequently risen about 48 per cent, boosting its stock market capitalisation by Rmb6bn ($919mn). According to the newspaper of the Chinese Medical Doctor Association, the leading professional body, Xuebijing was included in the NHC's treatment protocol after Zhong proposed to research its effectiveness. He has continued to promote the treatment. "Preliminary results show [Xuebijing is] effective ... It not only relieves symptoms but also reduces death rates," Zhong said at an event held by Tencent, the technology group, in April 2020. Zhong co-authored a study about the benefits of using Xuebijing in Chinese Critical Care Medicine, a peer-reviewed scientific journal, last year. "Conventional therapy combined with Xuebijing injection can significantly improve the ... clinical prognosis of patients with severe" Covid-19, the study said. But Zhong did not declare he is a director of Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang Pharmaceutical Technology, a company in which Xuebijing manufacturer Tian- jin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical has a 12.5 per cent stake, according to Tianjin Chase Sun's financial reports and corporate records. Zhong Nanshan Medical Foundation of Guangdong Province, a charity that conducts medical research and public health activities, also holds a 6.25 per cent stake in Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang. Yao Xiaoqing, Tianjin Chase Sun's chair, is a director of Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang. Tianjin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical, Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang Pharmaceutical Technology and Chinese Critical Care Medicine did not respond to a request for comment. Zhong has also extolled the benefits of another traditional Chinese medicine, Lianhua Qingwen, which was added to the official protocol on January 27. The treatment is made by Shijiazhuang Yiling Pharmaceutical, a Shenzhen-listed company whose stock has since risen about 146 per cent. Zhong has a longstanding relationship with Shijiazhuang Yiling and Wu Yiling, its billionaire founder. The company donated Rmb130,000 to the Zhong Nanshan Medical Foundation in 2013 and Zhong and Shijiazhuang Yiling signed a "strategic co-operation" agreement to research the benefits of Lianhua Qingwen two years later. In 2019, Zhong and Wu opened a separate joint research centre, an initiative of Shijiazhuang Yiling and Guangzhou Medical University, where Zhong previously served as president. Zhong co-authored a paper in May 2021 on the effectiveness of Lianhua Qingwen with Jia Zhenhua, Wu's son-inlaw, for Phytomedicine, a scientific journal owned by Dutch academic publisher Elsevier, without disclosing that the two were connected to the company. The journal added a correction after complaints from academics to make clear Zhong's ties to Jia but did not mention his links to Shijiazhuang Yiling. Shijiazhuang Yiling confirmed it had made donations to the foundation but said it was a charity and Zhong's personal interests were "irrelevant". It added that Zhong did not receive any funding for the strategic co-operation agreement to study Lianhua Qingwen. The US Food and Drug Administration has said claims that Lianhua Qingwen could prevent or treat Covid were "not supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence". Zhong has also recommended a nebuliser made by Asclepius Meditec, a Chinese device maker, that helps patients inhale a mix of hydrogen and oxygen to treat coronavirus. The treatment was added to the official protocol in 2020. Zhong is an official adviser to the company. It declined to comment. CREDIT: PRIMROSE RIORDAN, GLORIA LI, CHAN HO-HIM AND HUDSON LOCKETT HONG KONG CAPTION: Zhong Nanshan: general population follows his advice on the virus
: Public health; Donations; Chinese medicine; Pharmaceutical sciences; Coronaviruses; International relations; Pandemics; Critical care; Medical research; COVID-19
: : Donations International relations
: China
: Zhong Nanshan
: China's Covid-19 tsar promotes treatments without revealing links to makers:   Pandemic [Usa Region ]
: Riordan, Primrose; Li, Gloria; Ho-Him, Chan; Lockett, Hudson
: Financial Times; London (UK)
: 4
: 2022
: Apr 26, 2022
: News
: The Financial Times Limited
: London (UK)
/: United Kingdom, London (UK)
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance, Political Science
ISSN: 03071766
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2669219309
URL: 
: Copyright The Financial Times Limited Apr 26, 2022
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-pro fits, government institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text. Content is not loaded until 30 days after it is published.
: 2023-11-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
China's pandemic tsar promotes treatments without revealing links to makers: Virus response
: Riordan, Primrose; Li, Gloria; Ho-Him, Chan; Lockett, Hudson. 
: One of China's top government health officials has repeatedly promoted Covid-19 remedies included in Beijing's official treatment protocol for the disease without disclosing his links with the manufacturers. Epidemiologist Zhong Nanshan was chosen to head an expert group at the National Health Commission, responsible for formulating China's health policy, at the start of the pandemic. The NHC publishes a protocol advising on Covid treatments, regarded as the treatment "bible" by doctors and local governments across China, according to Jin Dong-Yan, a virologist at the University of Hong Kong. But Zhong, considered a hero after managing the 2003 Sars epidemic, has close ties to companies behind some of the treatments, which he has promoted in scientific journals and public talks without mentioning these relationships. "It's one thing to propose something to be included in the treatment guidelines based on evidence, but it's another thing if you have a commercial interest in proposing the inclusion, because the latter suggests a conflict of interest," said Yanzhong Huang, a senior fellow for global health at the Council on Foreign Relations think-tank. Philip Chan, a committee member of Pharmacists Connect, a Hong Kong organisation that represents the sector, added: "If [Zhong] is promoting products, he should explain clearly the interests that he has with ... the company behind the product." There is no suggestion Zhong has behaved illegally and he is not the only public health official in China who works with the private sector. But his high profile and influence over the pandemic response mean the general population follows his advice, according to Huang. Zhong and the NHC did not respond to requests for comment. Xuebijing, a traditional Chinese medicine made by Shenzhen-listed Tianjin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical, was added to the NHC's protocol for treating Covid in January 2020. The company's share price has subsequently risen about 48 per cent, boosting its stock market capitalisation by Rmb6bn ($919mn). According to the newspaper of the Chinese Medical Doctor Association, the leading professional body, Xuebijing was included in the NHC's treatment protocol after Zhong proposed to research its effectiveness. He has continued to promote the treatment. "Preliminary results show [Xuebijing is] effective ... It not only relieves symptoms but also reduces death rates," Zhong said at an event held by Tencent, the technology group, in April 2020. Zhong co-authored a study about the benefits of using Xuebijing in Chinese Critical Care Medicine, a peer-reviewed scientific journal, last year. "Conventional therapy combined with Xuebijing injection can significantly improve the ... clinical prognosis of patients with severe" Covid-19, the study said. But Zhong did not declare he is a director of Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang Pharmaceutical Technology, a company in which Xuebijing manufacturer Tian- jin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical has a 12.5 per cent stake, according to Tianjin Chase Sun's financial reports and corporate records. Zhong Nanshan Medical Foundation of Guangdong Province, a charity that conducts medical research and public health activities, also holds a 6.25 per cent stake in Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang. Yao Xiaoqing, Tianjin Chase Sun's chair, is a director of Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang. Tianjin Chase Sun Pharmaceutical, Tianjin Hongri Jiandakang Pharmaceutical Technology and Chinese Critical Care Medicine did not respond to a request for comment. Zhong has also extolled the benefits of another traditional Chinese medicine, Lianhua Qingwen, which was added to the official protocol on January 27. The treatment is made by Shijiazhuang Yiling Pharmaceutical, a Shenzhen-listed company whose stock has since risen about 146 per cent. Zhong has a longstanding relationship with Shijiazhuang Yiling and Wu Yiling, its billionaire founder. The company donated Rmb130,000 to the Zhong Nanshan Medical Foundation in 2013 and Zhong and Shijiazhuang Yiling signed a "strategic co-operation" agreement to research the benefits of Lianhua Qingwen two years later. In 2019, Zhong and Wu opened a separate joint research centre, an initiative of Shijiazhuang Yiling and Guangzhou Medical University, where Zhong previously served as president. Zhong co-authored a paper in May 2021 on the effectiveness of Lianhua Qingwen with Jia Zhenhua, Wu's son-inlaw, for Phytomedicine, a scientific journal owned by Dutch academic publisher Elsevier, without disclosing that the two were connected to the company. The journal added a correction after complaints from academics to make clear Zhong's ties to Jia but did not mention his links to Shijiazhuang Yiling. Shijiazhuang Yiling confirmed it had made donations to the foundation but said it was a charity and Zhong's personal interests were "irrelevant". It added that Zhong did not receive any funding for the strategic co-operation agreement to study Lianhua Qingwen. The US Food and Drug Administration has said claims that Lianhua Qingwen could prevent or treat Covid were "not supported by competent and reliable scientific evidence". Zhong has also recommended a nebuliser made by Asclepius Meditec, a Chinese device maker, that helps patients inhale a mix of hydrogen and oxygen to treat coronavirus. The treatment was added to the official protocol in 2020. Zhong is an official adviser to the company. It declined to comment. CREDIT: PRIMROSE RIORDAN, GLORIA LI, CHAN HO-HIM AND HUDSON LOCKETT HONG KONG CAPTION: Zhong Nanshan: general population follows his advice on the virus
: Public health; Donations; Chinese medicine; Pharmaceutical sciences; Coronaviruses; International relations; Pandemics; Critical care; Medical research; COVID-19
: : Donations International relations
: China
: Zhong Nanshan
: China's pandemic tsar promotes treatments without revealing links to makers:   Virus response
: Riordan, Primrose; Li, Gloria; Ho-Him, Chan; Lockett, Hudson
: Financial Times; London (UK)
: 6
: 2022
: Apr 26, 2022
: News
: The Financial Times Limited
: London (UK)
/: United Kingdom, London (UK)
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance, Political Science
ISSN: 03071766
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2669219261
URL: 
: Copyright The Financial Times Limited Apr 26, 2022
: This publication may be subject to restrictions within certain markets, including corporations, non-profits, g overnment institutions, and public libraries. In those cases records will be visible to users, but not full text. Content is not loaded until 30 days after it is published.
: 2023-11-02
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
Sindh Minister declares clinical trial on corona patients a major success
: Sindh Minister for Health and Population Welfare Dr. Azra Fazal Pechuho has declared the clinical trial on the efficacy and safety of Jinhua Qinggan Granules (JHQG), conducted at the Center for Bioequivalence Studies and Clinical Research (CBSCR) for the Treatment of COVID-19 Patients successful, and significant for the treatment of Covid19 patients, says a Press release. She said that this clinical trial at the CBSCR, Dr. Panjwani Center for Molecular Medicine and Drug Research, University of Karachi, represents the high level of expertise of Pakistani professionals in the field of clinical research. She was speaking in the public announcement ceremony of the firstever successful clinical trial of Chinese medicine 'Jinhua Qinggan Granules' (JHQG) held on Monday at the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences (ICCBS), University of Karachi. The ceremony was jointly organized by the Sindh Health and Population Welfare Department, COMSTECH, ICCBS University of Karachi, and many Chinese institutions. The ceremony was also addressed and attended by Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman, Chairman of Prime Minister's Task Force on Science and Technology, Prof. Dr. Khalid Iraqi, Vice Chancellor University of Karachi, Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary, Director of the International Center for Chemical and Biological Sciences, and COMSTECH Coordinator General, Excellency Mr. Nong Rong, Ambassador of The People's Republic of China in Pakistan, Excellency Mr. Moin ul Haque, Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in China, Prof. Dr. M. Raza Shah, Incharge of CBSCR and principal investigator of the study, Prof. Dr. Farzana Shaheen, Director (Acting) ICCBS, Dr. Yu Wenming (Video), Commissioner, National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine, China, US expert Terry Lierman and other Chinese officials. The health minister congratulated the experts involved in the clinical research and pointed out that Pakistan's capacity to conduct internationally registered clinical trials was an important step forward in meeting the challenges of the ever-increasing disease burden and preparing the nation for future health crises. She said, "I am also pleased to announce that my ministry has recently set up Sino-Pakistan Traditional Medicine Center at the ICCBS with a support of Rs. 136 million with the objective of close collaboration in research and practice of traditional Chinese medicine for the benefit of people of Sindh province." Prof. Atta-ur-Rahman said, "This is a historic occasion in many ways. Firstly, this is the first-ever clinical trial of Chinese medicine, and secondly, this also owns the international stature." He emphasized the deep and much broader bilateral relations of Pakistan and China and said that this close relation on the fronts of science and technology, higher education, and Information Technology are fostered with each passing day. The future of this nation lies in developing a strong knowledge economy, he said. Prof. Khalid Iraqi underlined the importance of taking precautionary measures in the ongoing pandemic and said that during the last 70 years, China had excelled in the field of traditional medicine. He also highlighted the importance of the faculty role in academia and said that ICCBS had played a pivotal role in the development of its faculty. Prof. Dr. M. Iqbal Choudhary informed the participants that Juxiechang (Beijing) Pharmaceutical Company manufactured Jinhua Qinggan Granules (JHQG). He said the CBSCR at the Dr. Panjwani Center was officially declared the center of the Sindh Health Department to conduct health-related research from the Sindh Government. The center alone produces about 20 percent of the PhDs awarded in the chemical and biomedical sciences annually in Pakistan, and the students previously trained at the center are contributing significantly to the academic and industrial development of the country, he said. He emphasized the fact that expertise in clinical trials is critically important in indigenous drug discovery and development. Excellency Chinese Ambassador Nong Rong congratulated Pakistani scientists and officials for having successful clinical trials of Chinese medicine said that this clinical trial would enhance the bilateral cooperation between China and Pakistan. Excellency Pakistani Ambassador Moin ul Haque appreciated the Chinese authorities for providing help to Pakistani health experts to overcome the ongoing pandemic. He said, "Pakistan attaches great importance to developing economic and trade ties with China". Prof. Dr. M. Raza Shah said that the mandate of CBSCR was to conduct clinical research on TCM-related products. The treatment group showed rapid recovery from symptoms including Cough, Sputum, Sore Throat, Dyspnea, Headache, Nasal Obstruction, and Myalgia after administration of JHQG Granules, he said. He said, "The Drug had no effect on routine blood tests, Urinalysis, Serum electrolytes, Liver function tests, Renal function tests, and ECGs of patients."
: Clinical trials; Rites & ceremonies; Chinese medicine; Pandemics; COVID-19
: China; Pakistan; Iraq
/: : University of Karachi; NAICS: 611310
: Sindh Minister declares clinical trial on corona patients a major success
: The Financial Daily; Karachi
: 2022
: Jan 18, 2022
: KARACHI
: AsiaNet Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd.
: Karachi
/: Pakistan, Karachi
: Business And Economics--Banking And Finance
: English
: News
ProQuest  ID: 2620288671
URL: 
: (c)2022 The Financial Daily
: 2023-11-04
: ABI/INFORM Collection
____________________________________________________________
© 2024 ProQuest LLC。 。
